PART ONE



CHAPTER ONE





We were somewhere near Barstow, in the desert, when the drugs began to take hold. I remember saying something like ''I feel a bit dizzy; maybe you should drive...'' And suddenly there was a terrible roar all around us, and the sky was full of what looked like huge bats, flying around the car, which was going about a hundred miles an hour with the top down to Las Vegas. And a voice was screaming: ''Holy Jesus! What are these goddamn animals?''

Then all was quiet again. My attorney had taken his shirt off and was pouring beer on his chest to speed up the tanning process.

''What the hell are you talking about?'' he asked, staring up at the sun with his eyes closed and covered with sunglasses.

''Never mind,'' I said. ''It's your turn to drive.''

I hit the brakes and pulled the Great Red Shark over to the side of the highway. No point mentioning those bats, I thought. Soon the poor bastard will see them himself. It was almost noon, and we still had more than a hundred miles to go. Difficult miles. Very soon, I knew, we would both be completely twisted. But there was no going back, and no time to rest. We would ride it out. Press-registration for the fabulous Mint 400 had already started, and we had to be there by four to get our sound-proof suite. A fashionable sporting magazine in New York had paid for the reservations and this huge red Chevy convertible we rented... and I was, after all, a professional journalist, so I had to cover the story, for good or ill.

The sporting-editors had also given me $300 in cash, most of which was already spent on extremely dangerous drugs. The trunk of our car looked like a mobile police narcotics lab. We had two bags of grass, seventy-five pellets of mescaline, five sheets of high-powered blotter acid, a salt shaker half full of cocaine, a galaxy of uppers and downers, and also a quart of tequila, a quart of rum, a case of Budweiser, a pint of ether, and two dozen amyls. All this had been collected the night before. Driving all over Los Angeles, we picked up everything we could get our hands on. It's not that we needed all that for the trip, but once you get into a serious drug collection, you go as far as you can.

The only thing that really worried me was the ether. There is nothing in the world more helpless and irresponsible than a man on ether. And I knew we'd get into that stuff pretty soon. Probably at the next gas station. We had tried almost everything else, and now - yes, it was time for ether. And then do the next hundred miles in a horrible stupor. The only way to stay focused on ether is to do a lot of amyls - not all at once, but regularly, just enough to drive at ninety miles an hour through Barstow.

''Man, this is the way to travel,'' said my attorney. He turned the volume up on the radio, humming along.

I could hardly hear the radio because I turned our tape recorder all the way up on ''Sympathy for the Devil''. That was the only tape we had, so we played it over and over again, along with the radio and also to keep our rhythm on the road. A constant speed, for some reason, seemed important at the time. Indeed, on a trip like this, one must be careful to avoid acceleration that draws blood to the back of the brain.

***

My attorney saw the hitchhiker long before I did.

''Let's give this boy a lift,'' he said, and before I could argue, he stopped, and this poor kid was running up to the car with a big grin on his face, saying, ''Damn! I never rode in a convertible before!''

''Is that so?'' I said. ''Well, I guess you're ready then, eh?'' The kid nodded as we roared off.

''We're your friends,'' said my attorney. ''We're not like the others.''

Oh Christ. I thought, he's already high.

''No more of that talk,'' I said sharply. ''Or I'll put the leeches on you.''

He grinned, seeming to understand. Luckily, the noise in the car was so awful - with the wind and the radio and the tape recorder - that the kid in the back seat couldn't hear a word we were saying. Or could he?

How long can we maintain? I wondered. How long before one of us starts jumping at this boy? What will he think then when my attorney starts screaming about bats and huge rays coming down on the car? Well, we'll just have to cut his head off and bury him somewhere. Because we can't let him go. He'll report us at once to some Nazi, and they'll track us down.

Jesus! Did I say that? Or just think it? Was I talking? Did they hear me? I glanced at my attorney, but he was watching the road, driving our Great Red Shark at a hundred and ten or so. There was no sound from the back seat. Maybe I'd better have a chat with this boy, I thought. Maybe if I explain things, he'll relax. Of course. I turned around in the seat and gave him a fine big smile.

''By the way,'' I said. ''There's one thing you should probably understand.''

He stared at me, not blinking.

''Can you hear me?'' I yelled.

He nodded.

''That's good,'' I said. ''Because I want you to know that we're on our way to Las Vegas to find the American Dream.'' I smiled. ''That's why we rented this car. It was the only way to do it. Understand that?''

He nodded again, but his eyes were nervous.

''I want you to understand it,'' I said. ''Because this is a very serious assignment... extreme personal danger... Hell, I forgot about this beer; you want one?''

He shook his head.

''How about some ether?'' I said.

''What?''

''Never mind. Let's see. About twenty-four hours ago we were sitting in the patio of the Beverly Hills Hotel under a palm tree when this uniformed dwarf came up to me with a pink telephone and said, 'This must be the call you've been waiting for all this time, sir.''' I laughed and opened a beer can that spilled all over the back seat. ''And you know what? He was right! I'd been waiting for that call, but I didn't know who it would come from. Do you understand me?'' The boy's face was a mask of pure bewilderment.

I went on: ''I want you to understand that this man at the wheel is my attorney! Jesus Christ, look at him! He doesn't look like you or me, right? That's because he's a foreigner. I think he's probably Samoan. But it doesn't matter, does it?''

''Oh, hell no!'' the boy cried.

''Exactly,'' I said. ''Because this man is extremely valuable to me.'' I looked at my attorney, but his mind was somewhere else. I hit the back of the driver's seat with my fist. ''This is important, goddamn it! This is a true story!''

The car swerved.

''Keep your hands off my goddamn neck!'' my attorney screamed.

The kid in the back looked like he was ready to jump right out of the car. Our vibrations were getting nasty - but why? Was there no communication in this car?

I was puzzled, frustrated because my story was true. I was certain of that. And it was extremely important, I felt, for the meaning of our journey to be absolutely clear.

***

We had actually been sitting there in the Beverly Hills Hotel - for many hours - drinking gin cocktails with beer and mescaline. And when the call came, I was ready.

The dwarf came up to our table, as I remember, and when he handed me the pink telephone I said nothing, just listened. And then I hung up, turning to my attorney.

''That was headquarters,'' I said. ''They want me to go to Las Vegas now, and make contact with a Portuguese' photographer named Lacerda. He'll have the details. All I have to do is check into my suite and he'll find me.''

My attorney said nothing for a moment, then he suddenly came alive in his chair.

''God hell!'' he exclaimed. ''This one sounds like real trouble!'' He called for more drink. ''You're going to need legal advice before this thing is over,'' he said. ''And my first advice is that you should rent a very fast car with no top and get the hell out of L. A. for at least forty-eight hours.'' He shook his head sadly. ''This ruins my weekend, because naturally I'll have to go with you.''

''Why not?'' I said. ''If a thing like this is worth doing at all, it should be done right. We'll need some equipment and lots of cash - for drugs and a tape recorder.''

''What kind of a story is this?'' my attorney asked.

''The Mint 400,'' I said. ''It's the richest off-the-road race for motorcycles and dune-buggies in the history of organized sport - a fantastic show in honor of some man named Del Webb, who owns the luxurious Mint Hotel in the heart of downtown Las Vegas... at least that's what the press release says; my man in New York just read it to me.''

''Well,'' he said, ''as your attorney I advise you to buy a motorcycle. How else can you cover a thing like this?''

''No way,'' I said. ''Where can we get a Vincent Black Shadow?''

''What's that?''

''A fantastic bike,'' I said. ''The new model.''

''That sounds right for this thing,'' he said.

''It is,'' I told him. ''The bike's pure hell on the road.''

''Can we handle that?'' he asked.

''Absolutely,'' I said. ''I'll call New York for some cash.''





CHAPTER TWO





The New York office did not know anything about the Vincent Black Shadow: they sent me to the Los Angeles office - which was actually just a few blocks from the hotel - but when I got there, the money-woman refused to give me more than $300 in cash.

She had no idea who I was, she said, and by that time I was sweating. I have never been able to properly explain myself in this California climate - not with the sweat... or wild red eyes and shaking hands.

So I took the $300 and left. My attorney was waiting in a bar around the corner.

''This won't do,'' he said, ''we have to have unlimited credit.''

I told him we would.

''You Samoans are all the same,'' I told him. ''You have no faith in the white man's culture. Jesus, just one hour ago we were sitting in that hotel, broke and paralyzed for the weekend, when a call comes from some total stranger in New York, telling me to go to Las Vegas - and then he sends me to some office in Beverly Hills where another total stranger gives me $300 in cash for no reason at all... I tell you, man, this is the American Dream in action!''

''Indeed,'' he said.

''Right,'' I said. ''But first we need the car. And after that, the cocaine. And then the tape recorder, for special music, and some Acapulco shirts.'' The only way to prepare for a trip like this was to dress up like peacocks, get crazy and cover the story.

But what was the story? Nobody had told us. So we would have to do it all on our own. Free enterprise. The American Dream. Do it now: pure Gonzo journalism.

***

Getting the drugs had been no problem, but the car and the tape recorder were difficult to find at 6:30 on a Friday afternoon in Hollywood. I already had one car, but it was too small and slow for the desert. We went to a Polynesian bar where my attorney made seventeen calls before finding a convertible with proper horsepower and color.

''We'll be there in thirty minutes,'' I heard him say into the phone. Then after a pause, he began shouting: ''What? Of course the gentleman has a credit card! Do you realize who the hell you're talking to?''

''Now we need a sound store with the finest equipment,'' I said as he put the phone down. ''We want a tape recorder with that new mike for picking up conversations in passing cars.''

We made several more calls and finally found our equipment in a store about five miles away. It was closed, but the salesman said he would wait, if we hurried. But there was an accident on the main road, and in the end we were late. Bad luck. The store was closed by the time we got there. There were people inside, but they refused to come to the glass door until we gave it a few kicks.

Finally two salesmen with tire irons came to the door and we managed to do the sale. They opened the door just wide enough to push the equipment out, before closing and locking it again.

''Now take that stuff and get the hell out of here,'' one of them shouted.

My attorney shook his fist at them. ''We'll be back,'' he yelled. ''One of these days I'll throw a goddamn bomb into this place! I have your names! I'll find out where you live and burn your houses down! You psychos...''

***

We had trouble, again, at the car rental agency. After signing all the papers, I got in the car and almost lost control of it while backing across the lot to the gas pump. The rental-man was obviously shocked.

''Say... uh... you fellows are going to be careful with this car, aren't you?''

''Of course.''

''Well, good god!'' he said. ''You just backed and you didn't even slow down! You were lucky to miss the pump.''

''No damage done,'' I said. ''I always test a transmission that way. For stress factors.''

Meanwhile, my attorney was busy carrying rum and ice to the back seat of the convertible. The rental-man watched him nervously.

''Say,'' he said. ''Are you fellows drinking!''

''Not me,'' I said.

''Just fill the goddamn tank,'' my attorney said. ''We're in a hell of a hurry. We're on our way to Las Vegas for a desert race.''

''What!''

''Never mind,'' I said. ''We're responsible people.''

I watched him fill the tank with gas; then I started the engine.

''Another psycho,'' said my attorney. ''To hell with him. We have a lot of business to take care of, before we can get on the road.''

''You're right,'' I said. ''And for Christ's sake don't smoke that pipe at stoplights. We're exposed.'' He nodded. ''We need a big hookah. Keep it down there on the back seat, out of sight. If anybody sees us, they'll think we're using oxygen.''

We spent the rest of that night gathering materials and packing the car. Then we ate the mescaline and went swimming in the ocean. At dawn we had breakfast in a Malibu coffee shop, then drove very carefully across town and right onto the freeway, heading East.





CHAPTER THREE





I was still slightly shocked by our hitchhiker's words that he had ''never ridden in a convertible before.'' Here's this poor guy, living in a world of convertibles that are passing him on the highways all the time, and he's never even ridden in one. I felt like giving the car to this poor bastard, just saying: ''Here, the car's yours.'' Give him the keys and then use the credit card to fly on a jet to some place like Miami and rent another huge red convertible for a ride all the way to Key West... and then exchange the car for a boat... Keep moving...

But this crazy idea passed quickly. I had plans for this car. I was looking forward to driving around Las Vegas in it. Maybe do a bit of serious racing - pull up to a big stoplight and start screaming at the traffic: ''All right, you suckers! When this goddamn light turns green, I'm going to step on it and blow every one of you off the road!'' Right. Challenge the bastards, with a bottle of rum in one hand, revving the engine, skidding, waiting for the light to change... How often does one get a chance like that?

But our trip was different. It was a declaration of everything right and true that is present in the national character. It was a salute to the fantastic possibilities of life in this country.

My attorney understood this concept, despite his race, but our hitchhiker didn't. He said he understood, but I could see in his eyes that he didn't. He was lying to me.

***

The car suddenly turned off the road and we stopped. My attorney was leaning over the wheel.

''What's wrong?'' I yelled. ''We can't stop here. This is a bat country!''

''My heart,'' he groaned. ''Where's the medicine?''

''Oh,'' I said. ''The medicine, yes, it's right here.'' I reached into the bag for the amyls.

The kid seemed terrified.

''Don't worry,'' I said. ''This man has a bad heart. But we have the cure for it. Yes, here they are.'' I took four amyls out of the tin box and handed two of them to my attorney. He cracked one under his nose and fell back on the seat, staring straight up at the sun. I did the same thing.

''Turn up the goddamn music!'' he screamed. ''Volume! Bass! What's wrong with us? Are we some goddamn old ladies?''

I turned both the radio and the tape recorder up.

''You bastard,'' I said. ''Watch your language! You're talking to a Doctor of Journalism!''

He was laughing out of control. ''What the heck are we doing out here on this desert?'' he shouted. ''Somebody call the police! We need help!''

''Don't pay attention to this pig,'' I said to the hitchhiker. ''He can't handle the medicine. Actually, we're both Doctors of Journalism, and we're on our way to Las Vegas to cover the main story of our generation.'' And then I began laughing...

My attorney turned to the hitchhiker.

''The truth is,'' he said, ''we're going to Vegas to kill a drug baron named Savage Henry. I've known him for years, but he ripped us off - and you know what that means, right?''

I wanted him to shut up, but we were both helpless with laughter. What the hell were we doing here, on this desert, when we both had bad hearts?

''Savage Henry is a dead man!'' my attorney yelled at the kid in the back seat. ''We're going to cut his heart out!''

''And eat it!'' I shouted. ''That bastard won't get away with this! What's going on in this country when a sucker like that can rip off a Doctor of Journalism?''

Nobody answered.

My attorney was cracking another amyl when the kid climbed out of the back seat.

''Thanks for the ride,'' he yelled. ''Thanks a lot. I like you guys. Don't worry about me.''

His feet hit the asphalt and he started running back. In the middle of the desert, not a tree in sight.

''Wait a minute,'' I yelled. ''Come back and get a beer.''

But probably he couldn't hear me. The music was very loud, and he was moving away from us very fast.





***

''Good riddance,'' said my attorney. ''That boy was a real freak. He made me nervous. Did you see his eyes?'' He was still laughing. ''Jesus, this is good medicine!''

I opened the car door and went to the driver's side.

''I'll drive,'' I said. ''We have to get out of California before that kid finds a cop.''

''That'll be hours,'' said my attorney. ''He's a hundred miles from anywhere.''

''So are we,'' I said. ''Open the tequila. We must get to the Mint Hotel before the end of the press registration, or we'll have to pay for our suite.''

He nodded. ''But let's forget that bullshit about the American Dream,'' he said. ''I think it's time to chew a blotter. That cheap mescaline wore off a long time ago, and I don't know if I can stand the smell of that ether any longer.''

''Speaking of which,'' I said. ''I think it's time to get into the ether and the cocaine.''

''Forget ether,'' he said. ''Let's save it for the rug in the suite. But here's this. Your half of the blotter. Just chew it.''

I took the blotter and ate it. My attorney was now taking out the salt shaker with the cocaine. Opening it. Spilling it. Then screaming and grabbing at the air, as our white dust blew up and across the desert highway. A very expensive little twister rising up from the Great Red Shark.

''Oh, Jesus!'' he cried. ''Did you see what God just did to us?''

''God didn't do that!'' I shouted. ''You did it. You pig!''

''You better be careful,'' he said, and suddenly he was waving a black .357 Magnum at me.

''You fool,'' I said. ''When we get to Las Vegas, what do you think the local drug barons will do when I show up with a Samoan narcotics agent?''

''They'll kill us both,'' he said. ''Savage Henry knows who I am. I'm your attorney.'' He started laughing wildly.

''You're full of acid, you idiot. It'll be a miracle if we get to the hotel and check in before you turn into a wild animal. Are you ready for that?''

He was laughing again, then he put his nose down the salt shaker, together with the thin green roll of a $20 bill, straight into what was left of the powder.

''How long do we have?'' I asked.

''Maybe thirty more minutes,'' he answered. ''As your attorney I advise you to drive at top speed.''

***

Las Vegas was just ahead of us. I could see the hotel skyline through the blue desert haze: The Sahara, the Landmark, the Americana and the Thunderbird - grey rectangles in the distance, rising out of the cactus.

Thirty minutes. It was going to be very close. We had to get to the big tower of the Mint Hotel, downtown - and if we didn't get there before we lost all control, there was also the Nevada State prison in Carson City. I had been there once, but only for a talk with the prisoners - and I didn't want to go back, for any reason at all.

So there was really no choice: we would have to go through all the official crap, get the car into the hotel garage, check in with the desk clerk, sign in for the press passes - all of it totally illegal, a fraud, but of course it would have to be done. This year, 1971, I was in Las Vegas because the motor sports editor of this fine magazine had sent me here in the Great Red Shark for some reason that nobody seemed to understand.

''Just check it out,'' they said.

Indeed. Check it out.

But when we finally arrived at the Mint Hotel my attorney couldn't cope with the registration procedure. We had to stand in line with all the others - which was extremely difficult under the circumstances. I kept telling myself: Be quiet, be calm, say nothing... speak only when spoken to - name, rank and press affiliation, nothing else, ignore this terrible drug, pretend it's not happening...

I cannot explain the terror I felt when I finally came up to the clerk and began babbling. All my well-prepared lines disappeared under that woman's glare.

''Hi there,'' I said. ''My name is... ah, Raoul Duke... yes, on the list, that's for sure. Free lunch, total coverage... why not? I have my attorney with me and of course his name is not on the list, but we must have that suite, yes, this man is actually my driver. We brought this Red Shark with us, and now it's time for the desert, right? Yes. Just check the list and you'll see. Don't worry. What's next?''

The woman never blinked. ''Your room's not ready yet,'' she said. ''But there's somebody looking for you.''

''No!'' I shouted. ''Why? We haven't done anything yet!''

My legs felt rubbery. I held onto the desk as she gave me the envelope. I refused to take it. The woman's face was changing: getting bigger... horrible green teeth coming out, the face of an eel! Deadly poison! I jumped backwards into my attorney, who grabbed my arm and then took the envelope.

''I'll handle this,'' he said to the eel-woman. ''This man has a bad heart, but I have plenty of medicine. My name is Doctor Gonzo. Prepare our suite now. We'll be in the bar.''

The woman shrugged as he led me away. In a town full of crazy people, nobody even notices an acid freak.

We went through the crowded lobby and found two stools at the bar.

My attorney ordered two cocktails with beer and mescaline, then he opened the envelope.

''Who's Lacerda?'' he asked. ''He's waiting for us in a room on the twelfth floor.''

I couldn't remember. Lacerda? The name sounded familiar, but I couldn't concentrate. Terrible things were happening all around us. Right next to me a huge reptile was biting a woman's neck; the carpet was covered in blood - impossible to walk on it.

''Order us some rubber boots,'' I whispered. ''Or we'll never get out of this place alive. These lizards don't have any problem moving around in this blood because they have claws on their feet.''

''Lizards?'' my attorney asked. ''If you think we're in trouble now, wait till you see what's happening in the elevators. I just went upstairs to see this man Lacerda. I told him we knew what he was up to. He says he's a photographer, but when I mentioned Savage Henry - he freaked. I could see it in his eyes.''

''Does he understand we have Magnums?'' I said.

''No. But I told him we had a Vincent Black Shadow. That scared him even more.''

''Good,'' I said. ''But what about our room? And the rubber boots? We're right in the middle of a goddamn reptile zoo! And somebody's giving booze to these goddamn things! Soon they'll tear us apart. Jesus, look at the floor! Have you ever seen so much blood? How many have they killed already?'' I pointed across the room to a group that seemed to be staring at us. ''Holy moly, look at those over there! They've spotted us!''

''That's the press table,'' he said. ''That's where you have to sign in. You do that, and I'll get the room.''





CHAPTER FOUR





When we finally got into the suite, my attorney called the room service and ordered four sandwiches, four shrimp cocktails, a quart of rum and nine fresh grapefruits.

''Vitamin C,'' he explained. ''We'll need all we can get.''

I agreed. By this time my hallucinations reached a tolerable level. The room service waiter still looked a bit reptilian, but I wasn't seeing huge pterodactyls or pools of fresh blood.

The only problem now was a big neon sign outside the window.

''Look outside,'' I said.

''Why?''

''There's a big... machine in the sky... some kind of electric snake...''

''Shoot it,'' said my attorney.

''Not yet,'' I said. ''I want to study its habits.''

''Look, you've got to stop this snakes and lizards talk and all that stuff. It's making me sick.''

''Don't worry,'' I said.

''Worry? Jesus, I almost went crazy there in the bar. They'll never let us back in that place - not after your scene at the press table.''

''What scene?''

''You bastard,'' my attorney said. ''I left you alone for three minutes! You scared those people! Waving that goddamn flyswatter around and yelling about reptiles. You're lucky I came back in time. They were ready to call the cops. I said you were only drunk and that I was taking you to your room for a cold shower. Hell, the only reason they gave us the press passes was to get you out of there.'' He was walking around the room nervously. ''Jesus, I must have some drugs.''

He opened the bag and ate two pellets of mescaline while I got the tape machine going.

''Maybe you should eat one of these too,'' he said. ''That acid's still working on you.''

I agreed.

''We have to go out to the track before dark,'' I said. ''By the way, where's the car?''

''We gave it to somebody in the parking lot,'' he said. ''I have the ticket in my briefcase.''

But he couldn't find the ticket.

''Well, we're finished,'' I said. ''We'll never convince them to give us that car without the ticket.''

He thought for a moment, then picked up the phone and asked for the garage.

''This is Doctor Gonzo in eight fifty,'' he said. ''I think I have lost my parking ticket for that red convertible I left with you, but I want the car washed and ready to go in thirty minutes. What... Oh?... Well, that's fine.'' He hung up.

''No problem,'' he said to me. ''That man remembers my face.''

***

Moments after we got into the car, my attorney went into a drug coma and ran a red light before I could bring us under control. I put him in the passenger seat and took the wheel myself... feeling fine, very sharp.

All around me in traffic I could see people talking and I wanted to hear what they were saying. All of them. But the mike was in the trunk and I decided to leave it there.

Turn up the radio. Turn up the tape machine. Look at the sunset ahead. Roll the windows down for a better taste of the cool desert wind. Ah yes. This is what it's all about. Total control now. Driving around in Las Vegas, two good old boys in a red convertible... stoned, twisted... good people.

***

The cactus juice took hold of me as we suddenly came up to the turn to the Mint Gun Club. ''One mile,'' the sign said. But even a mile away I could hear the bike engines... and then, coming closer, I heard another sound.

Shotguns! No mistake.

I stopped the car. What the heck is going on there? I rolled up all the windows and drove down the road... until I saw about a dozen figures, standing out there in the desert, pointing shotguns into the air, firing at regular intervals.

Of course. The Mint Gun Club!

Also there was a one-story concrete building shaded by ten or twelve trees and surrounded by cop-cars, trailers and motorcycles. There were about a hundred bikers and mechanics, signing in for tomorrow's race, drinking beers and examining each other's machinery.

I parked the car and went into the crowd, leaving my attorney in his coma. I bought a beer and watched the bikes checking in... all of them very fast, super-light desert bikes.

Maybe I should enter our Great Red Shark in the dune-buggy competition, I thought. Well, why not? Sign my attorney up as the driver, then send him to the starting line with a head full of ether and acid. How would they handle it? Nobody would dare go out on the track with that crazy person.

''What's the entry fee?'' I asked the desk-man.

''Two fifty,'' he said.

''What if I told you I had a Vincent Black Shadow?''

He stared at me, saying nothing, not friendly. I noticed he was wearing a 38 revolver on his belt.

''Forget it,'' I said. ''My driver's sick anyway.''

His eyes narrowed. ''Your driver isn't the only one sick around here, buddy.''

Suddenly, the man's eyes turned away. He was staring at something else. My attorney, without his sunglasses, and without his Acapulco shirt... very crazy looking.

''What's the problem?'' my attorney asked. ''This man is my client. Are you prepared to go to court?''

''Never,'' I said. ''It's the Black Shadow - they won't accept it.''

''Wait a minute!'' he shouted. ''What do you mean, they won't accept it? Have you made a deal with these pigs?''

''Of course not,'' I said. ''But as you've noticed, they're all armed. We're the only people here without guns. Can't you hear that shooting over there?''

He paused, listened, then suddenly began running toward the car.

By the time we got back on the highway he was able to talk.

''Jesus Christ! How did we get mixed up with that gang? Let's get the hell out of this town. Those psychos were trying to kill us!''





CHAPTER FIVE





The racers were ready at dawn. Very tense. Fine sunrise over the desert. But the race didn't start until nine, so we had to kill about three long hours in the casino, and that's where the trouble started.

The bar opened at seven. There was also a cafe, but those of us who had been up all night in places like the Circus-Circus were in no mood for coffee. We wanted strong drinks.

There were at least two hundred of us, so they opened the bar early. By eight-thirty there were big crowds around the tables. The place was full of noise and drunken shouting.

A thin, middle-aged man wearing a Harley-Davidson T-shirt walked up to the bar and yelled: ''God damn it! What day is this - Saturday?''

''More like Sunday,'' somebody said.

''Hah! That's fine. Last night I was home and somebody said they were going to the Mint 400, so I told my old lady, 'I'm going too'.'' He laughed. ''So she gave me a lot of crap about it, you know... so I started slapping her and the next thing I knew - two guys I never even seen before got me out on the sidewalk. Jesus! They beat the hell out of me.'' He laughed again, talking into the crowd. ''Then one of them says, 'Where're you going?' And I say, 'Las Vegas, to the Mint 400.' So they gave me ten bucks and drove me down to the bus station...'' He paused. ''At least I think it were them... Well, anyway, here I am. And I tell you, that was one hell of a long night, man! Seven hours on that goddamn bus! But when I woke up, it was dawn and here I was in downtown Vegas, and for a minute I didn't know what the hell I was doing here.'' He got a cigarette from somebody in the crowd and lit it up. ''But then I remembered: My God! I'm here for the Mint 400... and, man, that's all I needed to know. I tell you, it's wonderful to be here, man. I don't give a damn who wins or loses. It's just wonderful to be here with you people.''

The correspondent from Life nodded sympathetically and said, ''This is a magic moment in sport! It may never come again!''

Nobody argued with him. We all understood. We were, after all, the cream of the national sporting press. And we were gathered here in Las Vegas for a very special assignment: to cover the Fourth Annual ''Mint 400''... and when it comes to things like this, you don't fool around.

But now - even before the start - there were signs that we might be losing control of the situation. Here we were on this cool Nevada morning, in the desert, at some dirty bar in a concrete building and casino called the ''Mint Gun Club'' about ten miles out of Vegas... and we were dangerously disorganized.

Outside, the lunatics were playing with their motorcycles, doing the last minute checking, and the first ten bikes went off at nine. It was extremely exciting and we all went outside to watch. The flag went down and these ten poor guys zoomed into the first turn, all together, then somebody took the lead and disappeared in a cloud of dust. The crowd cheered.

''Well, that's that,'' somebody said. ''They'll be back in an hour or so. Let's go back to the bar now.''

But not yet. No. There were something like a hundred and ninety more bikes waiting for the start. They went off, ten at a time, every two minutes. At first it was possible to watch them to a distance of about two hundred yards from the starting line. But this visibility didn't last long. The third pack of ten disappeared into the dust about a hundred yards from where we stood... and by the time they'd sent off the first hundred (with still another hundred to go), our visibility was down to fifty feet.

Beyond that point the incredible dust cloud would hang over this part of the desert for the next two days. None of us realized, at the time, that this was the last we would see of the ''Fabulous Mint 400''. The idea of trying to ''cover this race'' was absurd.

The Ford Motor Company, as promised, gave us a ''press Bronco'' and a driver, but after a few runs across the desert, looking for motorcycles and occasionally finding one, I left this vehicle to the photographers and went back to the bar.

It was time, I felt, for taking in the whole scene. The race was definitely under way. I had seen the start; I was sure of that. But now what? Rent a helicopter? Get back in that Bronco? Go to that goddamn desert and watch these fools race past the checkpoints? One every thirteen minutes...

By ten the only visible action, was at the start-and-finish line, where every few minutes someone would come out of the dust cloud and get off his bike, while his pit crew would gas it up and then sent it back onto the track with a fresh driver for another fifty-mile lap.

Somewhere around eleven I made another tour in the press vehicle, but all we found were two dune-buggies full of what looked like retired officers from San Diego.

They stopped us and demanded, ''Where is the damn thing?''

''No idea,'' I said. ''We're just good patriotic Americans like yourselves.''

They were having a good time - just driving around the desert at top speed and chasing anybody they met.

''What are you, fellows?'' one of them shouted. The engines were all roaring; we could barely hear each other.

''The sporting press,'' I yelled. ''If you want a good chase, you should go after that guy from CBS News in the big black jeep. He's the man responsible for The Selling of the Pentagon.''

''Hot damn!'' two of them screamed at once. ''A black jeep, you say?''

They roared off, and so did we, bouncing across the rocks and cactus. The beer in my hand flew up and then fell in my lap and soaked my pants with warm foam.

''You're fired,'' I said to the driver. ''Take me back to the pits.'' It was time, I felt, to think this damn assignment over and figure out how to cope with it. Lacerda insisted on total coverage. He wanted to go back out in the dust storm and keep trying for some photographs.

''Joe'', our driver, wanted to go too. His name was not really ''Joe'', but that's what we'd been told to call him. I had talked to the FoMoCo boss the night before, and when we mentioned the driver, he said, ''His real name is Steve, but you should call him Joe.''

''Why not?'' I said, ''We'll call him anything he wants.''

''No,'' the Ford man said, ''It has to be 'Joe'.''

Lacerda agreed, and sometime around noon he went out on the desert again, in the company of our driver Joe. I went back to the Mint Gun Club where I began to drink heavily, think heavily, and write heavy notes...





CHAPTER SIX





Saturday midnight... Memories of this night were very hazy. All I had was a pocketful of napkins, all covered with notes.

Here is one: ''Get the Ford man, demand a Bronco for race observation... photos?... Lacerda... call... why not a helicopter?... get on the phone... heavy gambling here... winners and the bad luck crowd...''

A long time ago I had a friend who liked to go to Reno for gambling. And one month he drove his Mercedes to Reno on three weekends in a row - winning heavily each time. After three trips he had something like $15,000, so he decided to skip the fourth weekend and take friends to dinner.

''Always quit winners,'' explained. ''And besides, it's a long drive.''

On Monday morning he got a phone call from Reno - from the general manager of the casino. ''We missed you this weekend,'' said the GM.

So the next weekend my friend Hew to Reno in a private jet, with a friend and two girls - all ''special guests'' of the GM... And on Monday morning the same plane - the casino's plane - flew him back. The pilot lent him a dime to call a friend for a ride. He was $30,000 in debt.

Gambling is a very heavy business - and Las Vegas makes Reno seem like a neighborhood grocery store. For a loser, Vegas is the meanest town on earth.

***

Until about a year ago, there was a huge billboard on the outskirts of Las Vegas, saying:



DON'T GAMBLE WITH MARIJUANA!

IN NEVADA:

POSSESSION - 20 YEARS

SALE - LIFE!



So I was not very comfortable walking around the casino on this Saturday night with a car full of marijuana and my head full of acid. We had several dangerous incidents. At one point I tried to drive the Great Red Shark into the laundry room - but the door was too narrow, and the people inside seemed strangely excited.

Then we drove to the Desert Inn to catch the Debbie Reynolds and Harry James show. I was driving around in circles, looking for a parking place, and my attorney was scanning The Vegas Visitor Guide, looking for some action.

''How about 'Nickel Nick's Slot Arcade'?'' he said. '''Hot Slots', that sounds heavy... Twenty-nine cent hotdogs...''

Suddenly there were people screaming at us. We were in trouble. Two men wearing red-gold military uniform ran to us.

''What the heck are you doing?'' one of them screamed. ''You can't park here!''

''Why not?'' I asked. It seemed like a nice place to park, lots of space. I'd been looking for a parking spot for a very long time. Too long. I was ready to leave the car and call a taxi... but then, yes, we found this place. Which turned out to be the sidewalk in front of the main entrance to the Desert Inn. Now we were in a position that was hard to explain...

My attorney was out of the car, waving a five-dollar bill.

''We want this car parked! I'm an old friend of Debbie's.''

For a moment I thought we were finished... Then one of the doormen took the bill, saying: ''OK, OK. I'll take care of it, sir.''

''Holy moly!'' I said to my attorney as we hurried through the lobby. ''They almost had us there. That was quick thinking.''

''What do you expect?'' he said. ''I'm your attorney... and you owe me five bucks. I want it now.''

I shrugged and gave him a bill. We walked to the grand ballroom full of confidence, but they refused to let us in. We were too late, said a man in a tuxedo; the house was already full - no seats left, at any price.

''To hell with seats,'' said my attorney. ''We're old friends of Debbie's. We drove all the way from L.A. for this show, and we're going in.''

Finally, after a lot of bad noise, the man let us in for nothing - if only we would stand quietly in the back and not smoke.

We promised, but when we got inside we lost control.

Heavy hands grabbed our shoulders. I put the hash pipe back into my pocket just in time. We were dragged across the lobby and held at the front door until our car was ready.

''OK, get lost,'' said one of the uniform-men. ''If Debbie has friends like you, guys, she's in worse trouble than I thought.''

***

I drove to the Circus-Circus Casino and parked near the back door.

''This is the place,'' I said. ''They'll never get us here.''

''Where's the ether?'' asked my attorney. ''This mescaline isn't working.''

He went to get it from the trunk while I lit up the hash pipe. He came back with the ether-bottle and held it under his nose, breathing heavily. I was next.

Soon we were walking up the stairs to the entrance, laughing stupidly, like drunks. This is the main advantage of ether: it makes you behave like a drunkard with no connection between the body and the brain. Which is interesting, because the brain continues to function more or less normally... you can actually watch yourself behaving like this, but you can't control it.

You come up to the door leading into the Circus-Circus and you know that when you get there, you have to give the man two dollars or he won't let you inside... but when you get there, everything goes wrong: you almost fall, grab an old woman to keep yourself from falling, then you hear yourself babbling: ''Watch out!... Why money? My name is Brinks; I was born... was I?'' Ah, devil ether - a total body drug. The mind is in horror, the hands can't get the money out of the pocket... laughter and hissing from the mouth... always smiling.

Ether is the perfect drug for Las Vegas. In this town they love a drunk. Fresh meat.

So they let us in.

The Circus-Circus is where the whole world would've been gambling on a Saturday night if the Nazis had won the war. The ground floor is full of gambling tables, like in all the other casinos... but the place is four stories high, in the style of a circus tent, and all kinds of strange carnival madness is going on in this place. Right above the gambling tables... So you're down on the main floor playing blackjack, when suddenly you look up, and there, right above your head, is a half-naked girl and two silver-painted boys swinging on a trapeze. At some point they fall straight down towards the gambling tables - but then bounce off the net and spring back up towards the roof where they are grabbed out of the air by three more performers and taken to one of the balconies.

This goes on and on, but nobody seems to notice. The gambling runs twenty-four hours a day on the main floor, and the circus never ends. Meanwhile, on all the upstairs balconies, the customers can have other bizarre fun.

''Stand in front of this fantastic machine, my friend, and for just $99 your image will appear, two hundred feet tall, on a screen above downtown Las Vegas. Ninety-nine cents more for a voice message. Say whatever you want. They'll hear you, don't worry about that.''

Jesus Christ. I could see myself lying in bed, next to the window in the Mint Hotel, half-asleep, when suddenly a Nazi drunkard appears two hundred feet tall in the midnight sky, screaming some gibberish at the world.

A thing like that could send a drug person running around the room.

Hallucinations are bad enough, but after a while you learn to cope with them, and most acid users can handle this sort of thing.

But nobody can handle the possibility that any freak with $1.98 can walk into the Circus-Circus and suddenly appear in the sky over downtown Las Vegas, screaming anything that comes into his head. No, this is not a good town for psychedelic drugs. Reality is too twisted here.

***

Good mescaline takes hold slowly. The first hour is just waiting, then all through the second hour you start cursing the bastard who sold this crap to you because nothing is happening and then - WHAM? Strange glow and vibrations... a very dangerous thing in a place like the Circus-Circus.

''I hate to say this,'' my attorney said as we sat down at the bar on the second floor balcony, ''but this place is getting to me. I think I'm getting the Fear.''

''Nonsense,'' I said. ''We came here to find the American Dream, and now you want to quit?'' I grabbed his arm. ''You must realize that we've found the main nerve.''

''I know,'' he said. ''That's what gives me the Fear'' The ether was wearing off, the acid was long gone, but the mescaline was still strong. ''Please, don't tell me those things. Not now.'' He signaled the waitress for two more drinks. ''This is my last drink,'' he added. ''How much money can you lend me?''

''Not much,'' I said. ''Why?''

''I have to go,'' he said.

''Go?''

''Yes. Leave the country. Tonight.''

''Calm down,'' I said. ''You'll be fine in a few hours.''

''No!'' he shouted. ''This is serious. One more hour in this town and I'll kill somebody!''

I could see he was on the edge. ''OK,'' I said. ''I'll lend you some money. Let's go outside quietly and see how much we have left.''

''I want to leave fast,'' he said.

''OK. Let's pay this bill and get up very slowly. We're both out of our heads. This is going to be a long walk.'' I shouted at the waitress for a bill. She came back, looking bored, and my attorney stood up. ''Come on, Doc - let's go downstairs and gamble.''

I got him as far as the edge of the bar, but he refused to go any further. I turned around to wait for him, but he wouldn't move... His eyes were staring blindly ahead, with fear and confusion. But he didn't move a muscle.

This made me very nervous. I almost freaked out. The bartender seemed to be watching us. Carson City, I thought. Twenty years.

I came up to my attorney from behind - and pushed him. He screamed as he lost his balance and went down, into the crowd... then up again, fists ready, looking for somebody to hit.

''You fell,'' I said. ''Let's go.'' I was trying to smile.

But the fool didn't move, and I knew what would happen if I grabbed him. By this time people were really watching us.

''OK,'' I said. ''You stay here and go to jail. I'm leaving.'' I started walking fast towards the stairs, ignoring him.

This moved him.

''Did you see that?'' he asked me in the corridor. ''Some son of a bitch kicked me in the back!''

''Probably the bartender,'' I said.

''Good god! Let's get out of here. Where's the elevator?''

''Don't go near that elevator,'' I said. ''That's a trap.'' I looked over my shoulder, but nobody was following us. ''Don't run,'' I added. ''They'll shoot us.''

My attorney nodded, seeming to understand.

We walked fast along the corridors - then out through a glass door and across the grass to a parking lot where the Red Shark waited.

''You drive,'' he said. ''I think there's something wrong with me.''





CHAPTER SEVEN





When we got to the Mint, I parked on the street in front of the casino, around the corner from the parking lot. We couldn't risk walking through the lobby because neither one of us could pass for drunk. We were both hyper-tense. Extreme vibrations all around us.

We went through the casino and made it to the room without meeting anybody - but the key wouldn't open the door. My attorney was struggling with it.

''Those bastards have changed the lock,'' he said. ''They probably searched the room. Jesus, we're finished.''

Suddenly the door unlocked. We hesitated, then went inside. No sign of trouble.

''Lock it,'' said my attorney. He was staring at two Mint Hotel Room keys in his hand. ''Where did this one come from?'' he asked, holding a key with number 1221 on it.

''That's Lacerda's room,'' I said.

He smiled. ''Yeah, that's right. I thought we might need it.''

''What for?''

''Let's go up there and get him out of bed,'' he said.

''No,'' I said. ''We should leave the bastard alone. I think he's avoiding us for some reason.''

''Don't fool yourself,'' he said. ''That Portuguese son of a bitch is dangerous. He's watching us. Have you made a deal with him?''

''I talked with him on the phone,'' I said, ''while you were getting the car washed. He said he was getting up early, at dawn.''

My attorney was not listening. He hit the wall with both hands. ''That dirty bastard!'' he shouted. ''I knew it! He got my woman!''

I laughed. ''That little blonde with the film crew?''

''That's right - laugh about it!'' he yelled. By this time he'd opened a new bottle of tequila and was drinking it. Then he grabbed a grapefruit and cut it in half with a hunting knife.

''Where did you get that knife?'' I asked.

''Room service,'' he said. ''I wanted something to cut the limes.''

''What limes?''

''They didn't have any,'' he said. ''They don't grow them here in the desert.'' He cut the grapefruit into quarters then into eighths... then sixteenths... ''That dirty bastard. I knew I should've killed him when I had the chance. Now he has her.''

***

I remembered the girl. We'd had a problem with her in the elevator a few hours earlier: my attorney had made a fool of himself.

''You must be a rider,'' she'd said. ''What class are you in?''

''Class?'' he asked. ''What the heck do you mean?''

''What do you ride?'' she asked with a quick smile. ''We're filming the race for a TV series - maybe we can use you.''

''Use me?''

Mother of God, I thought. Here it comes. The elevator was crowded with the race people: it was taking a long time to get from floor to floor.

''I ride the big ones!'' he shouted suddenly. ''The really big ones!''

I laughed. ''The Vincent Black Shadow,'' I said.

''Bullshit,'' somebody behind me muttered.

''Wait a minute!'' my attorney shouted... and then to the girl: ''Pardon me, lady, but I think there are some ignorant suckers here who need to get cut up.'' He put his hand into his pocket and turned to face the people crowded into the back of the elevator. ''You cheap faggots,'' he yelled. ''Which one of you wants to get cut up first?''

I was watching the floor-indicator. The door opened at 7, but nobody moved. Dead silence. The door closed. Up to 8... then opened again. Still no sound or movement. Just as the door began to close I stepped out, grabbed my attorney's arm and pulled him out. The doors shut and the elevator light showed 9.

''Quick! Into the room,'' I cried. ''Those bastards will call the police!''

We ran around the corner to the room. My attorney was laughing wildly.

''Scared!'' he shouted. ''Did you see that? They were scared!''

Then, as we locked the door behind us, he stopped laughing.

''God damn it,'' he said. ''It's serious now. That girl fell in love with me.''

***

Now, many hours later, he was sure that Lacerda - the so-called photographer - had somehow got the girl.

''Let's go up there and cut him up,'' he said, waving his new knife. ''Did you put him onto her?''

''Look,'' I said, ''you'd better put that goddamn knife away and get your head straight. I have to go and put the car in the parking lot.''

I was backing slowly towards the door. One of the things you learn, after years of dealing with drug people, is that everything is serious. You should never turn your back on a drug person - especially when he's waving a sharp hunting knife.

''Take a shower,'' I said. ''I'll be back in twenty minutes.''

I left quickly, locking the door behind me and taking the key to Lacerda's room - the one my attorney had stolen earlier. That poorfellow, I thought as I hurried down. They sent him here on this assignment - just a few photos of motorcycles and dune-buggies racing around the desert - and now he's in trouble. There was no way he could possibly understand what was happening.

What were we doing here? What was the meaning of this trip? Did I actually have a big red convertible out there on the street? Was this Mint Hotel just a drug hallucination of some kind, or had I really come here to Las Vegas to work on a story? I reached into my pocket for the room key; ''1850'', it said. At least that was real.

So my task now was to deal with the car and get back to that room... and then hopefully cope with whatever might happen at dawn.

The Red Shark was where I'd left it. I drove around to the garage and checked it in - Dr. Gonzo's car, no problem.

***

My attorney was in the bathtub when I returned. A new AM/FM radio he got from the hotel shop was plugged into the electric socket. Playing some gibberish. Top volume.

I turned the volume down and noticed a chewed-up white paper beside the radio. My attorney seemed not to notice the sound-change. He was lost in a fog of steam; only half his head was above the water line.

''You ate this?'' I asked, pointing to the paper. He ignored me. But I knew. He would be very difficult to deal with for the next six hours. The bastard chewed whole blotter. ''You evil son of a bitch. You better hope there's some thorazine in that bag, because if there's not, you're in bad trouble tomorrow.''

''Music!'' he yelled. ''Turn it up. Put that tape on.''

''What tape?''

''The new one. It's right there.''

I picked up the radio and noticed that it was also a tape recorder. The tape had stopped and needed only to be turned over. He had already gone through side one - at a volume that must've been heard in every room.

'''White Rabbit'','' he said. ''I want that rising sound.''

''You're doomed,'' I said. ''I'm leaving in two hours - and then they're going to come here and beat the hell out of you. Right there in the tub.''

''I dig my own graves,'' he said. ''Put it on. Don't make me use this.'' His arm came out of the water, with the hunting knife in his fist.

''Jesus,'' I muttered. I couldn't help him. He was lying there in the tub with a head full of acid and the sharpest knife I've ever seen. This is it, I thought. This time it's a suicide. This time he wants it. He's ready...

''OK,'' I said, putting the tape on. ''But do me one last favor, will you? Can you give me two hours? That's all I ask - just two hours to sleep before tomorrow. It's going to be a very difficult day.''

''Of course,'' he said. ''I'm your attorney. I'll give you all the time you need, at my normal rates: $45 an hour.''

''How about a check?'' I said.

''Whatever,'' he said, beginning to jerk to the rhythm of the music.

The floor was full of water. I moved the radio as far from the tub as possible, then I left and closed the door behind me.

Suddenly, he was shouting. ''Help! You bastard! I need help!''

I rushed back inside, thinking he'd cut himself by accident. But no... he was reaching across the bathroom toward the shelf where the radio sat.

''I want that damn radio,'' he shouted.

I grabbed it away from his hand. ''You fool!'' I said. ''Get in that tub! Get away from that goddamn radio!''

''Rewind the tape!'' he yelled. ''I need it again!'' He wanted more. His eyes were crazy, unable to focus. ''Let it roll! And when it comes to that fantastic note at the end, I want you to throw that goddamn radio into the tub with me.''

I stared at him, holding the radio.

''Not me,'' I said finally. ''Not this radio. You'd be dead in ten seconds. Jesus Christ, they'd make me explain it... yes... all the details. I don't need that.''

''Bullshit!'' he screamed. ''Just tell them I wanted to get higher!''

I thought for a moment. ''Okay,'' I said finally. ''You're right. This is probably the only way.'' I picked up the radio - which was still plugged in - and held it over the tub.

He fell back in the water and smiled. ''Hell yes,'' he said.

''Don't worry,'' I said. ''Are you ready?'' I pushed the ''play'' button and ''White Rabbit'' started. Meanwhile, I looked through the pile of grapefruit and chose the biggest one. So when that high note came, I threw it into the tub like a cannonball. As my attorney screamed crazily, beating wildly at the water, I pulled the cord out of the radio and left the bathroom very quickly.

I found the Mace can in my bag - just as the bathroom door flew open and my attorney walked out. His eyes were still unfocused, but he was waving the knife in front of him like a man who wanted to cut something.

''Mace!'' I shouted. ''You want this?'' I waved the Mace can in front of his eyes.

He stopped. ''You bastard!'' he hissed. ''You'd do that, wouldn't you?''

I laughed, still waving the Mace can at him. ''Why? You'll like it. There's nothing in the world like a Mace high - forty-five minutes on your knees, gasping for breath. It'll calm you down. Hell, just a minute ago you were asking me to kill you! And now you want to kill me! God damn it, I think I should call the police!''

He sagged. ''The cops?''

I nodded. ''Yeah, there's no choice. I wouldn't dare go to sleep with you walking around in this condition - with a head full of acid and wanting to cut me up with that goddamn knife.''

He tried to smile. ''Who said anything about cutting you up?'' he muttered. ''I just wanted to carve a little Z on your forehead - nothing serious.''

I threatened him again with the Mace can. ''Get back in that tub,'' I said. ''Eat some reds and try to calm down. Smoke some grass, do whatever you have to do, but let me get some rest.''

He shrugged and smiled again. ''Hell yes,'' he said. ''You really need some sleep. You have to work tomorrow. Try to rest. Don't let me keep you up.''

I nodded, and watched him walk back into the bathroom - still holding the knife. The acid was wearing off. There will be four hours of stupor, but nothing physical, nothing dangerous. I watched the door close behind him, then I quietly put a heavy chair in front of the bathroom knob and set the Mace can beside the alarm clock.

Finally, the room was very quiet - which was fine for sleeping.





CHAPTER EIGHT





Ignore that nightmare in the bathroom, I told myself. My attorney was just another product of the Love Generation, who couldn't handle the pressure. He had never been able to accept the idea that you could get a lot higher without drugs than with them. And neither had I, actually.

I had used only hash and rum until I moved to San Francisco and found myself a victim of the Drug Explosion, just eating whatever came by.

I remember one night in a place called ''The Matrix'', when a road-person came in with a big pack on his back, shouting: ''Anybody want some L... S... D...?'' The manager was on him immediately, but before he was taken, the road-person gave away his samples. Huge white capsules.

I went into the men's room to eat mine. But only half at first, I thought. Good thinking, but a hard thing to do, under the circumstances. I ate the first half, but spilled the rest on the sleeve of my red shirt... And then, wondering what to do with it, I saw one of the musicians come in.

''What's the trouble?'' he asked.

''Well,'' I said. ''All this white stuff on my sleeve is LSD.''

He said nothing - just grabbed my arm and began sucking on it. Very gross.

I wondered what would happen if some young stockbroker walked in and caught us in the act. It'd ruin his life - forever thinking that just behind some narrow door in all his favorite bars, men in red shirts were getting incredible kicks from things he'd never know. Would he dare to suck a sleeve? Probably not. Pretend he never saw it.

Strange memories on this nervous night in Las Vegas.

Five years later? Six? It seems like a lifetime - the kind of peak that never comes again. San Francisco in the middle sixties was a very special time and place to be a part of. Maybe it meant something; maybe not... but no words, or music, or memories can touch that sense of knowing that you were here and alive in that corner of time and the world. Whatever it meant...

History is hard to know, but even without knowing it, it seems reasonable to think that every now and then the energy of a whole generation comes to a head, for reasons that nobody really understands at the time and which never explain what actually happened.

My central memory of that time seems to hang on one, or five, or maybe forty nights - or very early mornings - when I was driving my car, being absolutely certain that no matter which way I went, I would come to a place where people were just as high and wild as I was. No doubt about that. There was madness in any direction, at any hour. You could see sparks anywhere.

There was a fantastic universal sense that whatever we were doing was right, and that we were winning. And that, I think, was the sense of inevitable victory over the forces of Old and Evil. Not in the military sense; we didn't need that. Our energy would simply prevail. We had the momentum; we were riding a high and beautiful wave.

But now, less than five years later, you can go up on a hill in Las Vegas and look West, and you can almost see the high-water mark - that place where the wave finally broke and rolled back.





CHAPTER NINE





The decision to flee came suddenly. Or maybe not. Maybe I'd planned it all along - waiting for the right moment. The bill was a factor, I think. Because I had no money to pay it.

And besides, the magazine was legally responsible. My attorney saw to that. We signed nothing. We never knew the total, but - just before we left - my attorney said it was somewhere between $29 and $36 per hour, for forty-eight hours.

''Incredible,'' I said. ''How could it happen?''

But by the time I asked this question, there was nobody around to answer. My attorney was gone. He must've sensed trouble. On Monday evening he ordered a set of leather suitcases from room service and told me he had reservations on the next plane for L.A. We would have to hurry, he said, and on the way to the airport he borrowed $25 for the plane ticket.

I saw him off, then went back to the airport shop and spent all the rest of my cash on crap - souvenirs of Las Vegas. I carried it to the Great Red Shark and threw it all in the back seat... and then I sat into the driver's seat, turned the radio on, and began thinking.

Panic. Here I was, all alone in Las Vegas, with this goddamn incredibly expensive car, completely twisted on drugs, no attorney, no cash, no story for the magazine - and on top of everything else I had a huge goddamn hotel bill. We had ordered everything into that room - including about six hundred bars of soap. The whole car was full of it - all over the floors, the seats, the glove compartment - six hundred bars of this weird crap - and now it was all mine.

And then I suddenly noticed this plastic briefcase right beside me on the front seat. I knew immediately what was inside. No Samoan attorney in his right mind would step through the metal-detector gates of an airline with a black .357 Magnum on him.

So he had left it with me, for delivery - if I made it back to L.A. Otherwise... well, I could almost hear myself talking to the California Highway Patrol: What? This weapon? This loaded, unregistered .357 Magnum? What am I doing with it? Well, you see, officer, I stopped on the road near Barstow - on the advice of my attorney, who disappeared - and all of a sudden this little fellow came up to me, out of nowhere, and he had this horrible knife in one hand and this huge black revolver in the other... and he wanted to carve a big X on my forehead... but when I told him I was a Doctor of Journalism, his attitude changed. Yes, you probably won't believe this, officer, but he suddenly gave me this revolver. Right, he just put it into my hands and then ran off into the darkness. So that's why I have this gun, officer. Can you believe that?

No.

But I wasn't going to throw the gun away, either. A good .357 is a hard thing to get - these days.

So I decided, Well, just get this thing back to Malibu, and it's yours. My risk - my gun: it made sense. And if that Samoan pig wanted to argue, I'd shoot him in the leg. Indeed. Why not?

Madness, madness... and meanwhile I was all alone with the Great Red Shark in the parking lot of the Las Vegas airport. To hell with this panic. For the next twenty-four hours the matter of self-control will be critical. Here I am sitting here alone, with very dangerous things in my car that I must take back to L.A. If they get me here, I'm finished. No question about that. No future for a Doctor of Journalism. Better to get the hell out of this state at high speed. Right. But, first - to the Mint Hotel and cash a $50 check, then up to the room and call the room service for two sandwiches, two quarts of milk, a pot of coffee and some rum. Rum will be absolutely necessary to get through this night.

Mercy? Not for me. No mercy for a criminal freak in Las Vegas.

It is a weird feeling to sit in a Las Vegas hotel at four in the morning - with a notebook and a tape recorder in a $75-a-day suite with a fantastic room service bill - knowing that at dawn you are going to flee without paying a penny... go out through the lobby, and call to get your red convertible from the garage, and stand there waiting for it with a suitcase full of marijuana and illegal weapons... trying to look casual, reading the morning edition of the Las Vegas Sun.

This was the final step. I had taken all the grapefruit and other luggage out to the car a few hours earlier. Yes, extremely casual behavior, wild eyes hidden behind the sunglasses... waiting for the Shark. Where is it? I gave that evil car-boy $5.

Stay calm, keep reading the paper.

Reading the front page made me feel a lot better. Against the crimes reported in the paper, mine were pale. I was a relatively respectable citizen - certainly not dangerous.





CHAPTER TEN





Suddenly I felt guilty again. The Shark! Where was it? I threw the paper aside and began losing control... and then I saw the car rolling out of the next-door garage.

Saved!

''MISTER DUKE!''

The voice came from over my shoulder.

''Mister Duke! We've been looking for you!''

I almost collapsed.

No! I thought. I must be hallucinating. There's nobody back there, nobody's calling me... it's a paranoia... just walk towards the car, always smiling...

''MISTER DUKE! Wait!''

Well... why not? Many fine books have been written in prison. And I won't be a total stranger in Carson City. The warden - I once interviewed him for The New York Times. So what the heck? Why worry?

I turned around and saw a small young clerk with a big smile on his face and a yellow envelope in his hand.

''I've been calling your room,'' he said. ''Then I saw you standing outside.''

I nodded. By now the Shark was beside me, but I saw no point in even throwing my bag into it. The game was over. They had me.

The clerk was still smiling.

''This telegram just came for you,'' he said. ''But actually it isn't for you. It's for somebody named Thompson, but it says 'care of Raoul Duke'; does that make sense?''

I felt dizzy. It was too much. From freedom to prison, and then back to freedom again - all in thirty seconds. I leaned on the car. ''Yes,'' I said finally, ''it makes sense.''

I took the envelope and opened it:



URGENT LETTER

HUNTER S. THOMPSON c/o RAOUL DUKE SOUNDPROOF SUITE 1850 MINT HOTEL LAS VEGAS

CALL ME IMMEDIATELY STOP WE HAVE A NEW ASSIGNMENT BEGINNING TOMORROW ALSO VEGAS DONT LEAVE STOP THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF DISTRICT ATTORNEYS INVITES YOU TO THEIR FOUR DAY SEMINAR ON NARCOTICS AND DANGEROUS DRUGS AT DUNES HOTEL STOP ROLLING STONE CALLED THEY WANT 50 THOUSAND WORDS STOP PAYMENT TOTAL EXPENSES INCLUDING ALL SAMPLES STOP WE HAVE RESERVATIONS AT HOTEL FLAMINGO AND WHITE CADDY CONVERTIBLE STOP EVERYTHING IS ARRANGED CALL FOR DETAILS STOP URGENT STOP

DOCTOR GONZO



''Holy moly!'' I muttered. ''This can't be true!''

''You mean it's not for you?'' the clerk asked, suddenly nervous.

''It's for me,'' I said quickly. ''Don't worry.''

I threw my bag into the front seat of the Shark, wanting to leave. But the clerk was still curious.

''What about Doctor Gonzo?'' he asked.

I stared at him. ''He's fine,'' I said. ''But he has a bad temper. The doctor handles our finances, makes all our arrangements.'' I got into the driver's seat and prepared to leave.

The clerk leaned into the car. ''What confused us,'' he said, ''was Doctor Gonzo's name on this telegram from Los Angeles - when we knew he was here, in the hotel. You understand, I hope...''

I nodded. ''You did the right thing,'' I said. ''Never try to understand a press message. We use codes - especially with Doctor Gonzo.'' I smiled again.

''Tell me,'' he said, ''when will the doctor be awake?''

''Awake? What do you mean?''

He seemed uncomfortable. ''Well... the manager, Mister Heem, would like to meet him. Nothing unusual. Mr. Heem likes to meet all our large accounts... just a chat and a handshake, you understand.''

''Of course,'' I said. ''But if I were you I'd leave the doctor alone until after he's eaten breakfast. He's a very rude man.''

The clerk nodded. ''But will he be available later this morning?''

I saw what he was getting at.

''Look,'' I said. ''I have to get back to the race now. See you later.''

He stepped back. ''There's no hurry,'' he said to me. ''The race is over.''

''Not for me,'' I said, giving him a friendly wave.

And then I was off.

***

After a few blocks in the wrong direction, I turned south, towards L.A.

Keep cool and slow, I thought. Just go beyond the city limits...

What I needed was a place to get safely off the road, out of sight, and think about this incredible telegram from my attorney. It was true; I was certain of that. There was urgency in the message. But I didn't want to spend another week in Las Vegas. Not now.

Now it was definitely time to leave.

Driving along Las Vegas Boulevard at thirty miles an hour, I wanted a place to rest and make the decision. I also needed a beer or three...

There was some twisted humor in it: a gonzo journalist in the middle of a serious drug episode is invited to cover the National District Attorneys' Conference on Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs. There was also a certain appeal in the idea of checking into another Las Vegas Hotel and exchanging the red Chevy convertible for a white Cadillac - instead of fleeing to L.A.

It was a dangerous idea, but then where, for example, was the last place the police would look for a drug-addict who ripped off a downtown hotel? In the middle of a National District Attorneys' Drug Conference at an elegant hotel? Right. At a cocktail party for narcotics agents and their wives at the Dunes? Sure.

Indeed, what better place to hide? For some people. But not for me. And certainly not for my attorney. Separately, we might be able to do it. But together, no - there was too much aggressive chemistry in that mix. And that, of course, would finish us.

No, it was too much.

I drove slowly, looking for a place to sit down with an early morning beer and get my head together...





CHAPTER ELEVEN





Tuesday, 9:00 A.M. Now, sitting in ''Wild Bill's Cafe'' on the outskirts of Las Vegas, I saw it all very clearly. There's only one road to L.A. - U.S. Interstate 15, a straight run through Baker and Barstow, and then on the Hollywood Freeway, straight into Safety.

But for the next five or six hours, I'd be the most visible thing on this goddamn evil road - the only red convertible, driving along this desert highway with a half-naked mental case at the wheel. Is it better to wear my Acapulco shirt, or nothing at all?

No way to hide in this monster.

This will not be a happy run.

Just as I pulled into the ''Wild Bill's'' parking lot, I heard a roar overhead and looked up to see a big silver plane taking off. Was Lacerda aboard? The man from Life? Did they have all the photos they needed? All the facts? Had they done their job?

I didn't even know who'd won the race. Maybe nobody. I wanted to bridge this gap in my knowledge as soon as possible: pick up the L.A. Times and read the sports section for a Mint 400 story. Get the details. Cover the story. Even on the run, in Fear...

I knew it was Lacerda in that plane, heading back to New York. He told me last night that he wanted to catch the first flight.

So there he goes... and here I am, with no attorney, sitting on a red plastic stool in ''Wild Bill's Cafe'', nervously drinking a Budweiser in a bar... with a huge Red Shark just outside the door so full of dangerous things that I'm afraid to even look at it.

But I can't just leave it. The only hope is to somehow get it across three hundred miles of open road between here and Safety. But Jesus, I am so tired! I'm scared. I'm crazy. This culture has beaten me down. What the heck am I doing here? This is not even the story I was supposed to be working on. All signs were against it - especially that evil dwarf with the pink telephone in the Polo Lounge. I should have stayed there...



Aaawww... Mama, can this really be the end?



No!

How many more nights and mornings can this crap go on? How long can the body and the brain stand this craziness? This sweat, this blood pulsing in the temples, sixty or seventy hours with no sleep... bad waves of paranoia, madness, fear and loathing...

Get out. Flee...



YOU CAN RUN, BUT YOU CAN'T HIDE



And suddenly it occurs to me that my legal hotel checkout time is not until noon... which gives me at least two hours of high-speed driving to get out of this goddamn state.

Wonderful luck.

As far as the Mint people know, I am still up there, in 1850 - legally. With a ''Do Not Disturb'' sign on the door, the maids won't come near that room.

I had 600 bars of soap to deliver to Malibu. What will the FBI think of that? This Great Red Shark full of soap bars? All completely legal. The maids gave us that soap. They'll swear to it... Or will they?

Of course not. Those goddamn maids will swear they were threatened by two crazy men with a Vincent Black Shadow to give up all their soap.

Dear God! I'm guilty. I'm a sinner. But do me this one last favor: just give me five more high-speed hours; just let me get rid of this goddamn car and this horrible desert. Which is not much to ask, Lord, because the truth is that I am not guilty.

Creeping through the casino at six in the morning with a suitcase full of grapefruit and ''Mint 400'' T-shirts, I remember telling myself, over and over again, ''You are not guilty.'' After all, this whole goddamn nightmare is the fault of that goddamn magazine. Some fool in New York did this to me. It was his idea, Lord, not mine.

And now look at me: half-crazy with fear, driving 120 miles an hour across Death Valley in some car I never even wanted. You'd better take care of me, Lord... because if you don't, you're going to have me on your hands.





CHAPTER TWELVE





Tuesday, 12:30 P.M... Baker, California... now zombie-drunk and nervous. I recognize this feeling: it means the crisis is coming. But when? How much longer? The possibility of physical and mental collapse is very real now... but collapse is out of the question; it is unacceptable. Indeed. This is the moment of truth - that fine line between control and disaster.

I have just had two very bad emotional experiences - one with the California Highway Patrol and another with a phantom hitchhiker who may or may not have been who I thought it was - and now I am sitting with my tape machine in a ''beer bar'', wondering how it all happened.

***

About five miles back I had an incident with the CHP. Not stopped or pulled over: no, nothing like that. I always drive properly. A bit fast, perhaps.

Few people understand the psychology of dealing with a highway traffic cop. A normal speeder will panic and immediately pull over to the side when he sees the big red light behind him... and then he will start apologizing, begging for mercy...

This is wrong. It raises contempt in the cop-heart. The right thing to do - when you're running at about a hundred or so, and you suddenly find a red-flashing CHP-car behind you - is accelerate. Never pull over when you hear the first siren. Make the bastard chase you at speeds up to 120. He will follow.

But he won't know what to make of your flashing signal that says you're about to turn right. This is to let him know you're looking for a place to pull over and talk... so keep signaling and hope for an off-ramp with a sign saying ''Max Speed 25''... and the trick is to suddenly turn off the freeway at no less than a hundred miles an hour.

He will brake about the same time with you, but it will take him a moment to realize that he's about to make a 180-degree turn at this speed... but you will be ready for it, and with any luck you will have come to a complete stop off the road at the top of the turn and be standing beside your car by the time he catches up.

At first let him calm down. He will want the first word. Let him have it. He may even pull out his gun. Keep smiling. The idea is to show him that you were always in total control of yourself and your car - while he lost control of everything.

It helps to have a police/press badge in your wallet when he calms down enough to ask for your license. I had one of these - but I also had a can of Budweiser in my hand. Until that moment, I didn't realize that I was holding it. I had felt totally on top of the situation... but when I looked down and saw that little thing in my hand, I knew I was finished.

Speeding is one thing, but Drunk Driving is quite another. The cop seemed to understand this - that I'd totally forgotten about the beer can. His face relaxed, he actually smiled. And so did I. Because we both understood, in that moment, that my act had been totally wasted.

He took my open wallet with his left hand, then reached for the beer can with his right.

''Could I have that?'' he asked.

''Why not?'' I said.

He took it, then held it up and poured the beer out on the road.

I smiled. ''It was getting warm, anyway,'' I said. Just behind me, on the back seat of the Shark, I could see about ten cans of Budweiser and a dozen or so grapefruits. I'd forgotten all about them. My guilt was obvious.

The cop understood this. ''You realize,'' he said, ''that it's a crime to...''

''Yeah,'' I said. ''I know. I'm guilty. I knew it was a crime, but I did it anyway.'' I shrugged. ''Hell, why argue? I'm a goddamn criminal.''

''That's a strange attitude,'' the cop said.

I stared at him, seeing for the first time that I was dealing with a young fellow, around thirty, who was clearly enjoying his work.

''You know,'' he said, ''I get the feeling that you could use a nap. There's a rest area ahead. Why don't you pull over and sleep for a few hours?''

I understood what he was telling me, but for some reason I shook my head. ''A nap won't help,'' I said. ''I've been awake for too long - three or four nights; I can't even remember. If I go to sleep now, I'm dead for twenty hours.'' Good God, I thought. What have I said? This bastard is trying to be human; he could take me straight to jail, but he's telling me to take a nap. For Christ sake, agree with him: yes, officer, of course I'll use that rest area. And I can't tell you how grateful I am for the help you want to give me.

But no... here I was insisting that I would rather go straight ahead to L.A. which was true, but why say it? Why push him? This is not the right time for it.

''Look,'' I said. ''I've been in Las Vegas covering the Mint 400. All those bikes and dune-buggies driving around the desert for two days. Have you seen it?''

He smiled, shaking his head. I could see him thinking. Was I dangerous? Was he ready to take me under arrest?

''OK,'' he said finally. ''Here's how it is. What goes into my book is that I stopped you... for driving too fast, and advised you... to go to the next rest area... where you plan to take a long nap... right?''

I shrugged. ''How far is Baker? I was hoping to stop there for lunch.''

''That's not in my jurisdiction,'' he said. ''The city limits are two miles beyond the rest area.'' He grinned.

''I've wanted to go to Baker for a long time. I've heard a lot about it.''

''Excellent seafood,'' he said.

I shook my head and got back in the car, feeling raped. The pig had done me on all fronts, and now he was going off to laugh about it, waiting for me to make a run for L.A.

I got back on the freeway and drove past the rest area to the intersection where I had to turn right into Baker. As I was about to turn I saw... Great Jesus, it's him, the hitchhiker, the same kid we'd picked up and terrified on the way to Vegas. Our eyes met as I slowed down and he backed away.

God only knows what that kid said about us when he finally got back to town. Get out of sight at once. How could I be sure he recognized me? But the car was hard to mistake. And why else would he back away from the road?

Suddenly I had two personal enemies in this goddamn town. The CHP cop would get me for sure if I tried to go on to L.A., and this goddamn hitchhiker kid would send Nazis to hunt me down if I stayed.

Either way, it was horrible - I'd be lucky to leave town alive.

***

This was it: the crisis. I drove through the town and found a telephone booth on the outskirts. I made a collect call to my attorney in Malibu.

He answered at once.

''They've cornered me!'' I shouted. ''I'm trapped in some desert hell-hole called Baker. I don't have much time. They're coming for me.''

''Who?'' he said. ''You sound a little paranoid.''

''You bastard!'' I screamed. ''First I got stopped by the CHP, then that kid saw me! I need a lawyer immediately!''

''What are you doing in Baker anyway?'' he said. ''Didn't you get my telegram?''

''What? To hell with telegrams. I'm in trouble.''

''You're supposed to be in Vegas,'' he said. ''We have a suite at the Flamingo. I was just about to leave for the airport...''

I sat down in the booth. It was too horrible. Here I was, calling my attorney in a moment of terrible crisis, and the fool was high on drugs - a goddamn vegetable!

''You bastard,'' I groaned. ''All that crap in the car is yours! You understand that?''

''You idiot!'' he shouted. ''I sent you a telegram! You're supposed to be covering the National District Attorneys' Conference! I made all the reservations... rented a white Cadillac convertible... the whole thing is arranged! What the heck are you doing there in the middle the goddamn desert?''

Suddenly I remembered. Yes. The telegram. It was all very clear. My mind became calm. I saw the whole thing.

''Never mind,'' I said. ''It's all a big joke. I'm actually sitting beside the pool at the Flamingo. I'm talking from a portable phone. Some dwarf brought it out from the casino.'' I was breathing heavily, feeling crazy, sweating into the phone. ''Don't come anywhere near this place! Foreigners aren't welcome here.''

I hung up and walked back to the car. Well, I thought. This is how the world works. Yes, I would go back to Vegas. Fool the kid and the CHP by moving East again, instead of West. This would be the smartest move of my life. Back to Vegas and sign up for the Drugs and Narcotics conference; me and a thousand pigs. Why not? Register at the Flamingo and drive the White Caddy...

I looked across the road and saw a huge red sign that said BEER. Wonderful. I left the Shark by the phone booth and went across the highway into the bar.

The beer was ice-cold, and I relaxed. Suddenly, everything was going right.

The grey-haired bartender asked me with a smile, ''Where are you heading, young man?''

''Las Vegas,'' I said.

''A great town. You'll have good luck there.''

''I know,'' I said.

I was going back to Vegas. I had no choice.





PART TWO





CHAPTER ONE





About 20 miles east of Baker I stopped to check the drug bag. The sun was hot and I felt like killing something. Anything. Even a big lizard. I got my attorney's .357 Magnum out of the trunk. It was loaded. I blew the horn a few times, hoping to call up an iguana. They were out there, I knew it, in that goddamn sea of cactus, and every one of the little bastards was full of deadly poison.

Three fast explosions knocked me down. Three deafening blasts from the .357 in my right hand. Jesus! Firing at nothing, for no reason at all. Bad craziness. I threw the gun onto the front seat of the Shark and stared nervously at the highway. No cars. The road was empty for two or three miles in both directions. Fine luck. I wouldn't like to be found in the desert under these circumstances: firing wildly into the cactus from a car full of drugs. Especially not now.

Awkward questions would be asked: ''Well now, Mister... ah... Duke; you understand, of course, that it is illegal to fire while standing on a federal highway?''

''What? Even in self-defense? This goddamn gun has a sensitive trigger, officer. The truth is I wanted to fire only once - just to scare the little bastards.''

A heavy stare, then speaking very slowly: ''Are you saying, Mister Duke... that you were attacked out here?''

''Well... no... not really attacked, officer, but seriously scared. I stopped to piss, and when I stepped out of the car these dirty little bags of poison were all around me. They moved like lightning!''

They would take me under arrest, of course, then search the car - and when that happened, it would be hell. They would never believe all these drugs were necessary to my work; that in truth I was a professional journalist on my way to Las Vegas to cover the National District Attorneys' Conference on Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs.

''Just samples, officer. I got this stuff from a road-man in Barstow.''

Would they buy this? No. They would lock me in some jail for years to come...

***

Luckily, nobody bothered me while I checked the drug bag. It was a hopeless mess. My attorney had eaten all the reds, but there was quite a bit of speed left... no more grass, the coke bottle was empty, one acid blotter, a nice brown piece of opium hash, some mescaline, and six amyls... Not enough for anything serious, but if used carefully, it would probably get us through the four-day Drug Conference.

On the outskirts of Vegas I stopped at a pharmacy and bought two quarts of tequila, two bottles of whiskey and a pint of ether. I wanted to ask for some amyls. I wondered what the druggist would say if I also asked him for codeine and nitrous oxide. Probably he would've sold them to me. Why not? Free enterprise... Give the public what it needs.

I mean this fellow was in such a bad shape, officer, how the hell was I supposed to know he'd walk straight out of the pharmacy to his car and start abusing those drugs?

How indeed? I hurried outside to the car. The idea of going completely crazy in the middle of a DAs' drug conference had a definite appeal. But not on the first day, I thought. Save that for later.





CHAPTER TWO





The first business was to get rid of the Red Shark. It was too obvious. Too many people might recognize it, especially the Vegas police; although as far as they knew, the thing was already back home in L.A. It was last seen running at top speed on Interstate 15, stopped near Baker by the CHP... then suddenly disappeared...

The last place they would look for it, I felt, was in a rental-car lot at the airport. I had to go there anyway, to meet my attorney. He would be arriving from L.A. in the late afternoon.

I drove very quietly on the freeway, and when I got there, I parked the Shark between two old buses about half a mile from the terminal. Very tall buses. A little walking never hurt anybody.

By the time I got to the terminal I was sweating. But nothing abnormal. I sweat heavily in warm climates. Clothes are wet from dawn to dusk. This worried me at first, but when I went to a doctor and described the daily booze, drugs and poison I took, he told me to come back if or when the sweating stopped. That would be interesting to see, he said.

I spent about two hours in the bar, watching the flights from L.A. I'd eaten nothing except grapefruit for about twenty hours and my head was dizzy. You better watch yourself, I thought. You don't want to break down right here in the terminal. Not in this town. In Las Vegas they kill the weak ones. In the end I got up and walked out of the bar. No sign of my attorney.

Then I went to the VIP car-rental, where I exchanged the Red Shark for the Whale - a White Cadillac Convertible.

''This goddamn Chevy has caused me a lot of trouble,'' I told them.

''Well...,'' said the man behind the desk. ''What you need, I think, is one of our Mercedes 600 Specials, with air-conditioning and...''

''Do I look like a goddamn Nazi?'' I said. ''I'll have a natural American car, or nothing at all!''

They gave me the white Caddy Coupe de Ville at once. It was a wonderful machine: red-leather seats, white canvas top, everything automatic. I paid with a credit card that I later learned was ''canceled''. But the Big Computer hadn't caught me yet. Later, looking back on this, I could tell exactly what kind of conversation there had been.

''Hello. This is VIP car-rentals in Las Vegas. We're calling to check on number 875-045-6169. Just a credit check, nothing special...''

''Holy moly!''

''What?''

''Pardon me... Yes, we have that number. It's got a redline status. Call the police immediately and don't let him out of your sight!''

''Well... ah... you see, that number just left our rental in a new Cadillac convertible.''

''No!''

''Yes. He's long gone.''

''Where?''

''I think he said St. Louis. Yes, that's what the card says.''

During the next four days I drove that car all over Las Vegas - even past the VIP agency's main office several times - and never was I stopped.

***

I drove straight to the hotel after renting the car. There was still no sign of my attorney, so I decided to check in on my own. I left the Whale in a VIP parking lot and walked into the lobby with only one small leather bag.

Our room was at the Flamingo, right across the street from Caesar's Palace and the Dunes - site of the Drug Conference. Most of the conferees were staying at the Dunes, but those of us who signed up late were sent to the Flamingo.

My arrival was badly timed. The place was full of cops. Most of the national DAs and other cop-types had already checked in. These were the people who now stood around the lobby, trying to look casual, staring at newcomers. About two hundred vacationing cops with nothing better to do. They didn't even notice each other. All of them were dressed exactly alike: plaid Bermuda shorts, golf shirts and beach sandals.

I came up to the desk and got in line. The man in front of me was a Police Chief from some small town in Michigan. His wife was standing to his right while he argued with the desk-clerk.

''Look, fellow - I told you I have a postcard here that says I have reservations in this hotel. Hell, I'm with the District Attorneys' Conference! I've already paid for my room.''

''Sorry, sir. You're on the 'late list'. Your reservations were transferred to the... ah... Moonlight Motel, which is actually a very nice place, only sixteen blocks from here, with its own pool and...''

''You dirty little faggot! Call the manager! I'm tired of listening to this crap!''

The manager appeared and offered to call a cab. This was obviously a cruel drama that had begun long before I showed up. The police chiefs wife was crying.

After ten minutes of standing in line behind this noisy little sucker, I sensed the desk-clerk probably was a man who'd been dealing with many crazy cops. So now he was just giving their argument back to them: ''To hell with you, officer, I'm in charge here, and I'm telling you we don't have a room for you.''

I was enjoying it, but after a while I felt nervous. So I stepped in front of the cop and spoke directly to the desk-clerk.

''Look,'' I said, ''I hate to interrupt, but I have a reservation and I wonder if maybe I could just check in and get out of your way.'' I smiled, letting him know I'd understood his act on the cop that was now standing there, staring at me like I was some kind of monster crawling up to the desk.

I looked pretty bad, yes, but my voice had the tone of a man who knows he has a reservation. And I was right. The reservation was in my attorney's name. The clerk hit his desk bell to call the bag-boy.

''This is all I have with me, right now,'' I said. ''The rest is there, in that white Cadillac convertible.'' I pointed to the car that we could all see parked just outside the front door.

The desk-clerk was friendly. ''Don't worry about a thing, sir. Just enjoy your stay here - and if there's anything you need, just call the desk.''

I nodded and smiled, watching the stunned reaction of the cop-crowd right next to me. They were stupid with shock. Jesus! What's happening in this world?





CHAPTER THREE





I gave my bag to the boy and told him to bring me booze and a bucket of ice.

Our room was in one of the farthest wings of the Flamingo. The place is much more than a hotel: it is something like a huge Playboy Club in the middle of the desert, with many wings, pools, and driveways. It took me about twenty minutes to get from the front desk to the wing we had our room in.

My idea was to get into the room, get the booze, then smoke my last big piece of hash while watching TV and waiting for my attorney to arrive. I needed a break, a moment of peace and quiet, before we did the Drug Conference. It was going to be quite different from the Mint 400. This time it would need participation. This time we'd be attending the conference with a crowd that gathered for the purpose of putting people like us - drug abusers - in jail. We planned to act... It was mostly a matter of life-style, a sense of duty. If the Pigs were gathering in Vegas for a Drug Conference, we felt that the drug culture should be represented.

Or at least I was feeling this way until I got to the big grey door to our Mini-Suite 1150. I put my key into the lock and opened the door, thinking, ''Ah, home at last!''... but the door hit something, which happened to be a girl of uncertain age with the face and form of a bulldog. Her eyes were angry... and somehow I knew that I had the right room.

I moved past her into the suite, threw my leather bag on one of the beds and looked around for what I knew I would see... my attorney... totally naked, standing in the bathroom door with a stupid grin on his face.

''You degenerate pig,'' I muttered.

''This is Lucy,'' he said, nodding at the bulldog girl, and laughed.

I nodded to Lucy, who was looking at me with fury. I was clearly some kind of enemy, some ugly intruder... and it was clear from the way she moved around the room that she was ready for violence.

Even my attorney saw it. ''Lucy!'' he shouted. ''Lucy! Be cool, god damn it! Remember what happened at the airport... no more of that, OK?'' He smiled nervously at her. ''Lucy... this is my client, Mister Duke, the famous journalist. He's paying for this suite, Lucy.''

She said nothing. I could see that she was not in control of herself. I sat down on the bed and quietly reached into my bag for the Mace can... The last thing I wanted now was a fight in my own hotel room with some kind of drug-crazed hormone monster.

My attorney seemed to understand this; he knew why my hand was in the bag.

''No!'' he shouted. ''Not here! We'll have to move out!''

I shrugged. He was twisted. I could see that. And so was Lucy. Her eyes were crazy. She was staring at me like I was something that would have to be killed.

My attorney came up to her and put his arm around her shoulders. ''Mister Duke is my friend,'' he said gently. ''He loves artists. Let's show him your paintings.''

For the first time, I noticed that the room was full of artwork - maybe forty or fifty portraits, some in oil, some charcoal, all about the same size and all the same face. The face looked familiar, but I couldn't remember it.

''Lucy paints portraits of Barbra Streisand,'' my attorney explained. ''She's an artist from Montana...'' He turned to the girl. She stared at him, then at me, then back at my attorney again.

''I drew these from TV,'' she finally said.

My attorney nodded. ''Fantastic,'' he said. ''She came all the way here just to give these portraits to Barbra. We're going to the Americana Hotel tonight to meet her.'' Lucy smiled.

I left the Mace can in the bag and stood up. We obviously had a serious case on our hands.

''Well,'' I said, ''I guess they've brought the car here by now. Let's get the stuff out of the trunk.''

He nodded. ''Absolutely.'' He smiled at Lucy. ''We'll be right back. Don't answer the phone if it rings.''

''God bless,'' she said and grinned.

My attorney put on a pair of pants and a shirt, then we walked out of the room.

''Well... '' I asked him while we were waiting for the elevator.

''What are your plans?''

''Plans?''

''Lucy,'' I said.

He shook his head, trying to focus on the question. ''Damn,'' he said finally. ''I met her on the plane and I had all that acid.'' He shrugged. ''You know, those little blue pills. Jesus, she's a religious freak. She's running away from home for the fifth time. It's terrible. I gave her that pill before I realized... damn, she's never even had a drink!''

''Well,'' I said, ''we can keep her full of acid and sell her to the cops at the drug convention.''

He stared at me.

''She's perfect for it,'' I said. We were in the elevator now, going down to the lobby. ''These cops will pay fifty bucks each for her. This girl is a godsend! She could bring us a grand a day.''

''Jesus Christ,'' my attorney muttered. ''I knew you were sick, but I never expected to hear you actually say that kind of stuff.''

The elevator door opened and we walked toward the parking lot. I saw the Whale about fifty feet from the door.

''There it is,'' I said. ''Not a bad car - for a pimp.''





***

After much difficulty, we got back to the room and tried to have a serious talk with Lucy. I felt like a Nazi, but it had to be done. She was not right for us - not in this situation. It was bad enough if she were just a strange young girl in a bad psychotic episode - but what worried me much more than that was the possibility that in a few hours she would get into a Jesus-based rage and remember how she had been picked up in the Los Angeles International Airport and seduced by some cruel Samoan who gave her liquor and LSD.

I had a terrible vision of Lucy getting into Barbra Streisand's dressing room at the Americana and telling this story to her. That would finish us. They would track us down and probably castrate us both.

I explained this to my attorney, who was now upset about sending Lucy away. She was still twisted, and I felt the only solution was to get her as far as possible from the Flamingo before she was able to remember where she'd been and what happened to her.

While we argued, Lucy was lying on the bed, doing a sketch of Barbra Streisand. From memory, this time. The picture made me nervous. This girl was a walking bomb. God only knows what she might do when she reads The Vegas Visitor, as I just had, and learn that Barbra Streisand wasn't going to perform at the Americana for another three weeks?

''They might even call it kidnapping, you know,'' I said to my attorney. ''They'll send you straight to the gas chamber.''

''No!'' he shouted. ''I felt sorry for the girl, I wanted to help her!''

I smiled. ''Just imagine telling the jury that you tried to help this poor girl by giving her LSD and then taking her to Vegas.''

He shook his head sadly. ''You're right. They'd probably burn me... Damn, it doesn't pay to try to help somebody these days...''

***

My attorney finally agreed that Lucy would have to go.

We took her down to the car, telling her that we thought it was time to ''go meet Barbra''. We convinced her to take all her artwork, but she couldn't understand why my attorney wanted her to take her suitcase as well.

''I don't want to,'' Lucy protested. ''Barbra will think I'm trying to move in with her, or something.''

''No, she won't,'' I said quickly.

I felt bad. What would happen to this poor girl when we sent her away? Jail? Slavery? Lucy was a potential danger for us. There was absolutely no choice but to send her away and hope her memory wouldn't return. She had money. My attorney had checked that. It was possible that Lucy would have no memory of anything except our room number at the Flamingo... The only alternative was to take her out to the desert and feed her to the lizards. I wasn't ready for this.

Lucy was waiting for us in the car, listening to the radio with a little smile on her face. We were standing about ten yards away.

''You know, we can always call the cops in Montana, where she lives,'' my attorney said. ''She has no witnesses. Anything she says about us is totally worthless.''

''Us?'' I said.

He shrugged and stared at me. I could see that his head was clearing. The acid was almost gone. This meant that Lucy was probably sobering, too. It was time for her to go.

We finally decided to make her a reservation at the Americana. My attorney got her last name, and then I called the hotel - saying that I was her uncle and that I wanted her to be ''treated very gently'' because she was an artist and might seem a bit nervous. Then we drove her to the airport, and my attorney took her into the lobby with all her stuff. She was still twisted when he led her away. I drove around the corner and waited for him. Ten minutes later he walked up to the car and got in.

''Drive slowly,'' he said. ''Don't attract any attention.''

Later he explained that he'd given one of the airport cab-drivers a $10 bill to see that his ''drunk girlfriend'' got to the Americana, where she had a reservation.

''I told him to make sure she got there,'' he said.

''You think she will?''

He nodded.

''That's good,'' I said.

He grinned. ''As your attorney, I advise you to tell me where you put the goddamn mescaline.''

I pulled over. He took two pellets out of the bag and we each ate one. The sun was going down behind the hills. We drove back to town, relaxed on the red leather seats of our white Coupe de Ville.

''Maybe we should take it easy tonight,'' I said.

''Right,'' he said. ''Let's find a good seafood restaurant and eat some red salmon.''

I agreed. ''But first we should go back to the hotel and have a quick swim and some rum.''

He nodded, leaning back on the seat and staring up at the sky.

Night was coming down slowly.





CHAPTER FOUR





We drove through the parking lot of the Flamingo to our wing. No problem with parking, no problem with the elevator, and the suite was dark, quiet and peaceful when we entered.

The only thing moving in the room was the red-blinking message light on the telephone.

''Probably room service,'' I said. ''I ordered some ice and booze. I guess it came while we were gone.''

My attorney shrugged. ''We have plenty,'' he said. ''But hell yes, tell them to send it up.''

I picked up the phone and called the front desk.

''What's the message?'' I asked. ''My light is blinking.''

''Ah, Mister Duke,'' the clerk said. ''Yes, you have two messages. One says, 'Welcome to Las Vegas, from the National District Attorneys' Association.'''

''Wonderful,'' I said.

''...and the other,'' he continued, ''says, 'Call Lucy at the Americana, room 1600.'''

''What?''

He repeated the message. There was no mistake.

''Holy moly!'' I muttered.

''Excuse me?'' said the clerk.

I hung up.

***

My attorney was in the bathroom, and I walked out on the balcony and stared at the pool outside our suite. I felt like Othello: I'd only been in town a few hours, and we'd already been in the middle of a classic tragedy here.

My attorney came out of the bathroom with a towel around his neck. His eyes were half closed. ''This goddamn mescaline,'' he muttered. ''Why the hell can't they make it a little less pure?''

''Lucy called,'' I said.

''What?'' He looked like an animal taking a bullet.

''I just got the message. She's at the Americana, room 1600... and she wants us to call.''

He stared at me... and just then the phone rang.

I shrugged and picked it up. There was no point trying to hide. She had found us, and that was enough.

''Hello,'' I said.

It was the room clerk again.

''Mister Duke?''

''Yes.''

''Hello, Mister Duke. I'm sorry ... but I thought I should call again, because I was wondering...''

''What?'' This sucker was going to tell me something. What had that crazy bitch said to him? I tried to stay calm. ''We're watching the goddamn news!'' I screamed. ''What the hell are you calling me for? What do you want? Where's the goddamn ice I ordered? Where's the booze? There's a war! People are getting killed!''

''Killed?'' The clerk almost whispered the word.

''In Vietnam!'' I yelled. ''On the goddamn television!''

''Oh... yes... yes,'' he said. ''This terrible war. I just... I thought I should tell you... because I know you're here with the Police Convention... that the woman who left that message for you sounded very nervous. I thought you should know this.''

''What did you say to her?'' I asked.

''Nothing. Nothing at all, Mister Duke. I just took the message.'' He paused. ''But... I think she was crying.''

''Crying? Why was she crying?''

''Well... ah... she didn't say, Mister Duke.''

''Look,'' I said quickly. ''You should be gentle with that woman if she ever calls again. She's our case study. We're watching her very carefully.''

''Well... thank you,'' he muttered.

''Send the ice,'' I said, and hung up.

My attorney was smiling.

''Good work,'' he said. ''There hasn't been any news on the TV for three hours. That poor sucker will probably think we have some kind of special cop-channel here.''

''You forgot about Lucy,'' I said. ''She's looking for you.''

He laughed. ''No, she's looking for you.''

''Me?''

''Yeah. The only way I could get rid of her in the airport was by saying you were taking me out to the desert because you wanted me out of the way, so you could have her all to yourself.'' He shrugged. ''Well, I had to tell her something. I said she should go to the Americana and wait to see which one of us came back. I guess she thinks you won. That phone message wasn't for me, was it?''

I nodded. It made no sense at all, but I knew it was true. Drug reasoning. The rhythms were clear - and to him they made sense.

I thought about it for a while, then stood up and began stuffing things into my suitcase.

''What are you doing?'' he asked.

''Never mind,'' I said. Then I put on my shoes.

''Wait a minute,'' he said. ''Jesus, you're not leaving?''

I nodded. ''You're goddamn right, I'm leaving. But don't worry. I'll stop at the desk on my way out. You'll be taken care of.''

He stood up quickly. ''OK, god damn it, this is serious! Where's my .357?''

I shrugged, not looking at him. ''I sold it in Baker,'' I said. ''I owe you 35 bucks.''

''Jesus Christ!'' he shouted. ''That thing cost me a hundred and ninety goddamn dollars!''

I laughed, throwing my luggage together on the bed. Then I sat down to finish my drink. I was actually planning to leave. I didn't really want to, but there was too much risk in this story with Lucy... I had nothing personal against her. But I knew she could - under these circumstances - send us both to prison for at least twenty years: ''Yes sir, those two men over there are the ones who gave me the LSD and took me to the hotel...''

''And what did they do then, Lucy?''

''Well, sir, I can't remember exactly...''

''Indeed?''

''I don't know for sure what they did to me, but I remember it was horrible. One guy picked me up in the Los Angeles airport; he's the one who gave me the pill... and the other one met us at the hotel; he was sweating all the time, and he talked so fast that I couldn't understand what he wanted... No sir, I don't remember exactly what they did to me then, because I was still under the influence of that drug... yes sir, the LSD they gave me... and I think I was naked for a long time, maybe the whole time they had me there. I think it was evening, because I remember they watched the news on TV...''

They would check the trunk of the Whale, and then the jury would know what we'd done.

No, I was not ready for this.





CHAPTER FIVE





There was no way to cope with it. I stood up and gathered my luggage. It was important, I felt, to get out of town immediately.

My attorney seemed to finally understand this. ''Wait!'' he shouted. ''You can't leave me alone in here! This room is in my name.''

I shrugged.

''OK, god damn it,'' he said, moving toward the phone. ''Look, I'll call her.'' He nodded. ''You're right. She's my problem.''

I shook my head. ''No, it's gone too far.''

''Relax. I'll handle this.''

He dialed the Americana and asked for 1600. ''Hi, Lucy,'' he said. ''Yeah, it's me. I got your message... what? Hell no, I taught the bastard a lesson he'll never forget... what?... no, not dead, but he won't bother anybody for a while...''

Jesus, I thought.

''But here's the problem,'' he was saying. ''I have to leave right away. That bastard cashed a bad check here and gave your name, so they'll be looking for both of you... yeah, I know... The last thing in the world you want to do is call this hotel again; they'll trace the call and put you behind bars... no, I'm moving to the Tropicana right away; I'll call you from there when I know my room number... yeah, probably two hours... I think I'll probably use a different name, but I'll let you know what it is... sure, just as soon as I check in... listen, I have to go... yeah, I know, it's horrible, but... OH MY GOD! THEY'RE KNOCKING THE DOOR DOWN!''

He threw the phone to the floor and began shouting: ''No! Get away from me! I'm innocent! It was Duke! I swear to God!'' He kicked the phone against the wall, then began yelling again: ''No, I don't know where she is! I think she went back to Montana. You'll never get Lucy! She's gone!''

He kicked the phone one more time, then put the receiver down.

''Well,'' he said quietly. ''That's it. I think that's the last we'll be hearing from Lucy.''

***

Now the room was quiet again. I sat on the bed, and my attorney was back in his chair, watching TV and playing with the hash pipe. It was empty.

''Where's that opium?'' he asked.

I threw him the bag. ''Be careful,'' I muttered. ''There's not much left.''

''As your attorney,'' he said, ''I advise you not worry.'' He laughed. Then he got up, went to the bathroom and brought back a little brown bottle.

''What is it?''

''Adrenochrome,'' he said. ''You won't need much. Just taste it a little.''

I took the bottle from him and dipped the head of a match into it.

''That's right,'' he said. ''You'll go completely crazy if you take too much.''

I licked the end of the match.

''Where did you get this?'' I asked. ''You can't buy it.''

''Never mind,'' he said. ''It's absolutely pure.''

I shook my head. ''Jesus! This stuff comes from the adrenal glands of a living human body,'' I said. ''It's no good if you get it out of a corpse.''

He nodded. ''I know.''

I could already feel the stuff working on me. Maybe I should take a swim, I thought. I was barely able to talk now. My body felt like I'd just been plugged into a 220-volt socket.

''Jesus, we should get us some of that stuff,'' I muttered finally. ''Just eat it and see what happens.''

''Some of what stuff?'' he asked.

But I could barely hear him. ''It's... fantastic,'' I said. My hands started moving uncontrollably. My legs were jerking. I could feel my eyeballs popping out.

''So what's the story?'' I muttered. ''What happened? What about the glands?''

He looked at me from across the room. ''Maybe you need another drink,'' he said nervously. ''Jesus, that stuff got right on top of you, didn't it?''

I tried to smile. ''Well... nothing worse... no, this is worse...'' It was hard to move my tongue. ''No... nothing to worry about... maybe if you could just... throw me into the pool, or something...''

''God damn it,'' he said. ''You took too much. You're going to explode. Jesus, look at your face!''

I couldn't move. Total paralysis now.

''It won't last long,'' he said. ''The first wave is the worst. If I put you in the pool right now, you'll sink like a goddamn stone.''

I was sure of it. Not even my lungs seemed to be functioning, but I couldn't even open my mouth to say so. I was going to die. Just sitting there on the bed...

My attorney had gone back to watching television. The news was on again. Nixon's face filled the screen, but I couldn't understand his speech. I could hear myself breathing heavily.

''Just stay relaxed,'' my attorney said over his shoulder, without looking at me. ''Don't try to fight it, or you'll start getting strokes... and die.''

He changed channels.

***

It was after midnight when I finally was able to talk and move again... but I was still not free of the drug. I was nervous, crawling around the room like a wild animal, sweating and unable to focus for more than two or three seconds at a time.

My attorney put down the phone after making several calls. ''There's only one place where we can get fresh salmon,'' he said, ''and it's closed on Sunday. Better call room service.''

''No!'' I said. ''We must get out of this place. I need air. Let's drive to Reno and get a big tuna fish salad... hell, it won't take long. Only about four hundred miles; no traffic out there on the desert...''

''Forget it,'' he said. ''We'd never make it.''

We ended up at a place downtown. I hadn't slept for something like eighty hours, and that drug had left me completely exhausted. Tomorrow we would have to get serious. The drug conference started at noon... and we were still not sure how to handle it.





CHAPTER SIX





''On behalf of the district attorneys of this county, I welcome you to our conference.''

We sat in the back row, behind a crowd of about 1500 people, in the main ballroom of the Dunes Hotel. Far in front of the room, the director of the National District Attorneys' Association - a middle-aged man named Patrick Healy - was opening their Third National Institute on Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs.

His voice reached us through a big speaker placed on a steel pole in our corner. Perhaps a dozen others were placed around the room, so people in each section of the room mostly stared at the nearest speaker, instead of watching the figure of whoever was actually talking to them. But the technicians of the National DAs' Convention in Vegas probably couldn't handle the sound system because the voices crackled and echoed.

''We must accept the Drug Culture in this country!... country... country...''

''The reefer butt is called a 'roach' because it looks like a cockroach... cockroach... cockroach...''

''What the hell are these people talking about?'' my attorney whispered. ''You'd have to be crazy on acid to think a joint looked like a goddamn cockroach!''

I shrugged. It was clearly a prehistoric gathering.

The voice of a ''drug expert'' named Bloomquist crackled out of the nearest speakers. Dr. E. R. Bloomquist was one of the big stars of the conference. He is the author of a book titled Marijuana, which - as it is written on the cover - ''tells it like it is.''

According to the book, he is ''a well-known authority on the abuse of dangerous drugs, who has also appeared on national television, has been a consultant for government agencies, was a member of the Committee on Narcotics Addiction and Alcoholism of the American Medical Association.'' He is clearly one of the academics who get paid from $500 to $ 1000 for lecturing to cop-crowds.

Dr. Bloomquist's book is full of bullshit. On page 49 he explains the ''four states of being in the cannabis society: Cool, Groovy, Hip and Square''.

''The 'square' is seldom 'cool','' says Bloomquist. ''He is 'not with it', he doesn't know 'what's happening'. But if he figures it out, he moves to 'hip'. And if he approves of what's happening, he becomes 'groovy'. And after that, he can get the rank of 'cool'.''

This is the kind of gibberish that used to be posted in the Police Departments:



KNOW THE DOPE FIEND!

YOUR LIFE MAY DEPEND ON IT!

You will not see his eyes behind the shades, but his knuckles will be white from tension and his pants will be covered with semen from masturbating constantly when he can't find a rape victim. He will babble when questioned. He will not respect you.

The Dope Fiend fears nothing. He will attack you,

for no reason, with any weapon.



BEWARE!



Indeed.

***

It was clear at a glance that this Drug Conference was not what we'd planned on. It was far too open, too mixed. About a third of the crowd looked like they'd just stopped by, for the show. The DAs' conference had obviously attracted a number of undercover narcs and other twilight types.

These were the people who made my attorney nervous.

''They're actually nice people,'' I said, ''once you get to know them.''

He smiled. ''Know them? Are you kidding? Man, I know these people in my goddamn blood!''

''Don't mention that word,'' I said. ''It'll make them excited.''

''This is a goddamn nightmare!'' he kept muttering. ''Here I am, at a goddamn Pig Conference, but sure as hell there's some freak in this town who's going to recognize me and spread the word that I'm here partying with a thousand cops!''

We all wore name-tags. They came with the $100 ''registration fee''. Mine said I was a ''private investigator'' from L.A. - which was true, in a way; and my attorney's name-tag said he was an expert in ''Criminal Drug Analysis''. Which was also true, in a way.

But nobody seemed to care who was what, or why.





CHAPTER SEVEN





The first session lasted most of the afternoon. We sat patiently through the first two hours, although it was clear from the start that we weren't going to learn anything new. It was easy to sit there with a head full of mescaline and listen to hour after hour of gibberish... There was certainly no risk. These poor bastards didn't know mescaline from macaroni.

But then the lights were turned off for a Dope Film, and a thousand cops all around us watched a movie about the ''dangers of marijuana''. Our brain wouldn't take it without acid. Here were more than a thousand top-level cops telling each other ''we must accept the drug culture,'' but they had no idea where to start. They couldn't even find the goddamn thing. There were rumors that maybe the Mafia was behind it. Or perhaps the Beatles.

At one point somebody in the audience asked Bloomquist if he thought Margaret Mead's ''strange behavior'' might be explained by a marijuana addiction.

''I really don't know,'' Bloomquist answered. ''But at her age, if she did smoke grass, she'd have one hell of a trip.''

The audience laughed at this remark.

My attorney leaned over to whisper that he was leaving. ''I'll be down in the casino,'' he said. ''I know much better ways to waste my time than listening to this bullshit.''

He stood up and walked toward the door. People tried to make a path for him, but there was no room to move. ''I have to get out!'' he shouted. ''I don't belong here!''

''Watch yourself!'' somebody shouted back.

By now he was almost at the door. He paused, looking around.

I stood up and went after him. It seemed like a good time to flee.

''Pardon me, I feel sick,'' I said to the first leg I stepped on. ''Sorry, I'm sick... sorry, sick... pardon, feeling sick...''

This time there was not a word of protest. People feared I was going to vomit, and nobody wanted it - at least not on them.

***

My attorney was downstairs at the bar, talking to a young-looking cop whose name-tag said he was a DA from Georgia.

''I'm a whiskey man myself,'' he was saying. ''We don't have much problem with drugs where I come from.''

''You will,'' said my attorney. ''One of these nights you'll wake up and find a junkie in your bedroom.''

''No!'' said the Georgia man. ''Not in my district.''

I joined them and ordered a glass of rum with ice.

''Your friend here's been telling me about dope fiends,'' he said.

''They're everywhere,'' I said. ''Nobody's safe. And surely not in the South. They like the warm weather.''

''They work in pairs,'' said my attorney. ''Sometimes in gangs. They'll climb right into your bedroom and sit on your chest, holding big knives.''

''Jesus Christ,'' said the cop. ''What the hell's going on in this country?''

''You'd never believe it,'' said my attorney. ''In L.A. it's out of control. First it was drugs, now it's witchcraft.''

''Witchcraft?''

''Read the newspapers,'' I said.

''No!'' he said. ''That's science fiction stuff!''

''Not where we operate,'' said my attorney. ''Hell, in Malibu they kill six or eight people every day, and all they want is the blood. Just the other day we had a case where they kidnapped a girl right from a McDonald's. She was a waitress. About sixteen years old... with a lot of people watching, too!''

''What happened?'' said our friend. ''What did they do to her?''

''Do?'' said my attorney. ''Jesus Christ, man. They sucked the blood out of her!''

''Good god!'' the Georgia man exclaimed. ''And nobody did anything?''

''What could they do?'' I said. ''The guys had guns. They were all veterans.''

''One of them, a big guy, used to be a major in the Marines,'' said my attorney. ''We know where he lives, but we can't get near the house.''

''No way!'' our friend shouted.

''He was after the adrenal glands,'' I said. ''That's how he got so big. When he quit the Marines, he was just a little guy.''

''Oh my god!'' said our friend. ''That's horrible!''

''It happens every day,'' said my attorney. ''Usually it's whole families. During the night. Most of them don't even wake up until they feel their blood going - and then, of course, it's too late.''

The bartender had stopped to listen. I'd been watching him.

''Three more rums,'' I said. ''With ice.''

He nodded, but I could see that he was staring at our name-tags.

''Are you guys with that police convention upstairs?'' he asked finally.

''We sure are, my friend,'' said the Georgia man with a big smile.

The bartender shook his head sadly. ''I thought so,'' he said. ''I never heard that kind of talk at this bar before. Jesus Christ! How do you guys stand that kind of work?''

My attorney smiled at him. ''We like it,'' he said. ''Besides, hell, somebody has to do it.''

The bartender stared at us for a moment longer, then turned away.

''Hell, I really hate to hear this,'' our friend said quietly. ''Because everything that happens in California sooner or later goes our way. Mostly Atlanta...'' He shrugged. ''But now, Jesus, nobody's safe. They could be anywhere.''

''You're right,'' said my attorney. ''We learned that in California.''

''They'll be everywhere, very soon.'' I said. ''And let's hope we'll be ready for them.''

''But we can't!'' the Georgia man exclaimed. ''We don't even know who these people are! How do you recognize them?''

''You know what to do,'' said my attorney. ''We've done it before, and we can do it again.''

''What do you mean by that?'' he asked.

''Cut their goddamn heads off,'' I said. ''Every one of them. That's what we're doing in California.''

''What?''

''Sure,'' said my attorney. ''It's all unofficial, of course.''

''God! I had no idea it was that bad there!'' said our friend.

''We keep it quiet,'' I said. ''It's not the kind of thing you'd talk about upstairs, for example.''

Our man agreed. ''Hell no!'' he said.

''And Dobermans don't talk,'' I said.

''What?''

''Sometimes it's easier this way,'' said my attorney. ''They'll fight like hell if you try to take them without dogs.''

''God!''

My attorney was already gone when I said goodbye to our friend, warning him not to say anything about what we had told him. We left him at the bar, staring at his drink and not smiling.





CHAPTER EIGHT





Sometime around midnight my attorney wanted coffee. He had been vomiting quite regularly on the right side of the Whale as we drove around.

We were waiting at a stoplight beside a big blue Ford with Oklahoma plates and two couples inside-probably cops from the Drug Conference, giving their wives a look at Vegas. But suddenly, they found themselves next to a white Cadillac convertible all covered with vomit and a 300-pound Samoan in a yellow T-shirt yelling at them: ''Hey there! You folks want to buy some heroin?''

No reply.

''Hey, you!'' my attorney screamed. ''God damn it, I'm serious! I want to sell you some pure stuff!'' He was hanging out of the car, very close to them.

Still nobody answered.

I glanced at them and saw four faces frozen with shock, staring straight ahead.

My attorney was losing control. ''Cheap heroin!'' he was shouting. ''This is the real stuff! You won't regret it! I know what I have here!'' He hit the side of the car to get their attention. ''You guys never talked to a vet before? I just got back from Vietnam. This is hell! Pure hell!''

The man in the back seat of the Oklahoma car lost control of himself and cried wildly: ''You dirty bastards! I'll kill you! God damn you! You bastards!''

Luckily the Ford was a two-door. He couldn't get out.

Finally the light changed and the Ford went off like a rocket.

My attorney was laughing. ''Jesus Christ,'' he said. ''Those Okies' were getting excited. That guy in the back seat was trying to bite me!'' He nodded thoughtfully. ''What a psycho... you never know when they're going to explode.''

***

About thirty minutes after our meeting with the Okies we stopped at an all-night diner on the highway in the North Vegas. It was some time around three. I was looking for a copy of the L.A. Times, for news of the outside world, but they don't need the Times in North Vegas. No news is good news.

''To hell with newspapers,'' said my attorney. ''What we need now is coffee.''

I agreed, but I stole a copy of the Vegas Sun anyway. It was yesterday's edition, but I didn't care. The idea of entering a coffee shop without a newspaper in my hands made me nervous.

We had the place to ourselves - which was lucky because we'd eaten two more pellets of mescaline on the way, and the effects were beginning to show.

My attorney was not vomiting, or even acting sick. He ordered coffee. The waitress had the appearance of a hooker who had finally found her place in life. She was definitely in charge here, and she looked at us with suspicion.

I wasn't paying much attention to it. The North Star coffee shop seemed like a safe haven. There was nothing in its atmosphere to alert me. The waitress was unfriendly, yes, but that was nothing special. She was a big woman. Not fat, but large. She was wearing a huge pink bra that showed through her white uniform. Probably she was married to somebody, but I didn't feel like asking. All I wanted from her, tonight, was a cup of black coffee and a 29 cent hamburger. I wasn't even hungry. No talk - just a place to rest.

My attorney had no newspaper or anything else to pay his attention to. So he focused on the waitress. She was taking our orders like a robot when he suddenly asked for ''two glasses of ice water - with ice''. My attorney drank his water, then asked for another glass.

I noticed that the waitress was tense. About ten minutes later, when she brought the hamburgers, I saw that my attorney handed her a napkin with something written on it.

Then I knew, from the vibes, that our peaceful rest was over.

''What was that?'' I asked him.

He shrugged, smiling at the waitress who was standing at the end of the counter while she studied the napkin. Finally she turned and stared... then she stepped forward and threw the napkin at my attorney.

''What is this?'' she asked.

''A napkin,'' said my attorney.

There was a moment of silence, then she began screaming: ''Don't give me that bullshit! I know what it is! You goddamn fat bastard!''

My attorney picked up the napkin, looked at what he'd written, then put it back on the counter. ''That's the name of a horse I used to have,'' he said calmly. ''What's wrong with you?''

''You son of a bitch!'' she screamed.

Jesus! I thought. What's happening? I was watching the woman's hands, hoping she wouldn't grab anything sharp or heavy. I took the napkin and read what the bastard had written on it: ''Back Door Beauty?''

The woman was screaming again: ''Pay your bill and get the hell out of here! You want me to call the cops?''

I reached for my wallet, but my attorney was already on his feet, never taking his eyes off the woman... then he pulled out a knife. The waitress seemed to understand it all at once. She froze: her eyes were watching the blade. My attorney, watching her, moved to the comer of the room and took the payphone receiver off the hook. He cut it off, then brought the receiver back to his stool and sat down.

The waitress didn't move.

I was shocked, not knowing whether to run or start laughing.

''How much is that lemon pie?'' my attorney asked calmly.

''Thirty five cents,'' the woman whispered. There was fear in her eyes, but her brain was still functioning.

My attorney laughed. ''I mean the whole pie,'' he said.

She sobbed.

My attorney put a bill on the counter. ''Let's say it's five dollars,'' he said. ''OK?''

She nodded, still frozen, watching my attorney as he walked around the counter and got the pie.

The waitress was still paralyzed when we left.





CHAPTER NINE





My attorney and I got a strong feeling that the American Dream was somewhere far beyond the District Attorneys' Conference on Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs.

At this point, I think I'd broken down completely. My notes of what was happening then were so messed up that the following section will be the original tape recording and its transcription. According to the tape, this is an episode with me, my attorney and a waitress at a diner. The transcription begins on the outskirts of Las Vegas - driving around in the White Whale...

Att'y: Boulder City is to the right. Is that a town?

Duke: Yeah.

Att'y: Let's go to Boulder City.

Duke: All right. Let's get some coffee somewhere...

Att'y: Right there, Terry's Taco, USA. I could go for a taco. Five for a buck.

Duke: Sounds horrible. I'd rather go somewhere where there's one for 50 cents.

Att'y: Don't judge a taco by its price. It's just a cheap place, that's all... this might be the last chance to have tacos.

Duke: I need some coffee.

Att'y: I want tacos...

...

Att'y: Hello.

Waitress: May I help you?

Att'y: Yeah, you have tacos here? Are they Mexican tacos or just regular tacos? I mean, do you have chili in them and things like that?

Waitress: We have cheese and lettuce, and we have sauce to put on them.

Att'y: I mean do you guarantee that they are real Mexican tacos?

Waitress: I don't know. Hey Lou, do we have real Mexican tacos?

Lou (from the kitchen): What?

Waitress: Do we have real Mexican tacos?

Lou: We have tacos. I don't know how Mexican they are.

Att'y: Yeah, well, I just want to make sure I get what I'm paying for. They're five for a dollar? I'll take five of them.

Duke: Taco burger - what's that?

Att'y: That's a hamburger, with a taco in the middle.

Duke: A taco on a bun.

Att'y: Are all your tacos just hamburgers on a bun?

Waitress: I don't know.

Att'y: You just started working here?

Waitress: Today.

Att'y: I thought so. I've never seen you here before, (to Duke) As your attorney I advise you to get a taco burger. Try it.

Duke: All right, I'll try that one. And coffee now. Right now. So I can drink it while I'm waiting.

Waitress: That's all you want, one taco burger?

Duke: Well, I'll try it. If I like it, I might want two.

Waitress: Want anything to drink?

Att'y: Beer. And I have beer in the car. Lots of it. The back seat's full of it.

Duke: And the coconuts... Is Boulder City somewhere around?

Waitress: Boulder City? Do you want sugar in your coffee?

Duke: Yeah.

Att'y: We're in Boulder City, right? Or very close to it?

Duke: I don't know.

Waitress: There it is. That sign says Boulder City, OK. Aren't you from Nevada?

Att'y: No. We've never been here before. Just traveling. Is there any action here in Boulder City? Any gambling?

Waitress: Don't ask me. I don't know, it's just a little town.

Duke: Where is the casino?

Waitress: I don't know.

Att'y: Wait a minute, where are you from?

Waitress: New York.

Att'y: And you've just been here a day?

Waitress: No, I've been here for a while.

Att'y: Uh, let me explain it to you. We're looking for the American Dream, and we were told it was somewhere in this area... Well, we're looking for it because they sent us here all the way from San Francisco to look for it. That's why they gave us this white Cadillac: they think that we could catch up with it in that car...

Waitress: Hey Lou, you know where the American Dream is?

Att'y (to Duke): She's asking the cook if she knows where the American Dream is.

Lou: What?

Waitress: Five tacos, one taco burger. Do you know where the American Dream is?

Lou: Oh, you mean a place?

Att'y: A place called the American Dream.

Lou: Is that the old Psychiatrist's Club?

Waitress: I think so.

Att'y: The old Psychiatrist's Club?

Lou: Old Psychiatrist's Club, it's near here. It was a disco place... Could be that.

Att'y: Maybe that's it.

Lou: Ross Allen had the old Psychiatrist's Club. Is he the owner now?

Duke: I don't know.

Att'y: All we were told was: go till you find the American Dream. Take this white Cadillac and go find the American Dream. It's somewhere in the Las Vegas area. It's a silly story to do, but you know, that's what we get paid for.

Lou: That has to be the place... Are you taking pictures of it, or...?

Att'y: No, no - no pictures.

Lou: That has to be the old Psychiatrist's Club, but the only people who hang out there are pushers and dopers and all that stuff.

Att'y: Maybe that's it. Is it a night-time place or is it an all-day...?

Lou: Oh, honey, this never stops. But it's not a casino.

Att'y: Is that what it's called, the old Psychiatrist's Club? What kind of place is it?

Lou: Uh, no, that is what it used to be called, but someone bought it... but I didn't hear about it as the American Dream, it was something like... uh... it's a place where all the dopers are.

Att'y: You mean like a hospital?

Lou: No, honey, it's a place where all the kids get pot and everything... but it's not called what you said, the American Dream.

Att'y: Do you have any idea what it is called now? Or where it is?

Waitress: Yeah, I know it, go around the Flamingo, then straight from there...

Att'y: We're staying at the Flamingo. I think this place you're talking about... I think that's maybe it.

Lou: It's not a tourist place. These guys... these kids are nuts.

Att'y: Well, that's why they sent me: he's the writer, and I'm the bodyguard.

Waitress: Yeah, they got new laws.

Duke: Twenty-four-hour-a-day violence? Is that what you're saying?

Lou: Exactly. Now, here's the Flamingo... And here, at the first gas station, you take a right turn and go this way... you'll see a big black building. And there's a sign on the side of the building that says Psychiatrist's Club, but they're remodeling it now and everything.

Att'y: All right, that's close enough.

Lou: I don't know if that's it or not. But it sounds like it is. I think you boys are on the right track.

Att'y: OK. Big black building, twenty-four-hour-a-day violence, drugs... That's the best lead we've had in two days, and we've been asking people all around.

Lou: You'll be glad you stopped here, boys.

Duke: Only if we find it.

Att'y: Only if we write the article and get it published.

Almost two hours later my attorney and I finally found what was left of the ''Old Psychiatrist's Club'' - a huge pile of cracked concrete in an empty lot overgrown with tall weeds. The owner of a gas station across the road said the place had ''burned down about three years ago''.





CHAPTER TEN





My attorney left at dawn. We almost missed the first flight to L.A. because I couldn't find the airport. It was less than thirty minutes from the hotel. I was sure of that. So we left the Flamingo at exactly seven-thirty... but for some reason we didn't turn at the stoplight and kept going straight ahead on the freeway that parallels the main airport runway.

''God damn it! We're lost!'' my attorney was shouting. ''What are we doing here on this goddamn road? The airport is right there!'' He pointed across the desert.

''Don't worry,'' I said. ''I've never missed a plane yet. Except once in Peru. I had already checked out of the country, through customs, but I went back to the bar to chat with this Bolivian cocaine dealer... and all of a sudden I heard those airplane engines starting up, so I ran out to the runway and tried to get aboard but they'd already rolled the ladder away. I was completely out of my mind: I was desperate to get aboard. The airport cops saw me coming, and they gathered at the gate. I was running straight at them. The guy with me was screaming: 'No! It's too late! Don't try it!' I saw the cops waiting for me, so I tried to run right through the bastards. The suckers almost killed me. All I remember was five or six of them on me at the same time, and a voice screaming: 'Stop the crazy gringo!' Then I woke up about two hours later in a bar in downtown Lima. My luggage was beside me. Nobody had opened it... so I went back to sleep and caught the first flight home, the next morning.''

My attorney was only half listening. ''Look,'' he said, ''I'd really like to hear more about your Peru adventures, but not now. Right now all I want is to get to that goddamn runway.''

We were driving at good speed. I was looking for an opening, or some kind of side road, or some lane going across the runway to the terminal. We were five miles past the last stoplight and there wasn't enough time to turn around and go back.

There was only one way to make it on time. I hit the brakes and sent the Whale down into the grassy ditch between the two freeway lanes. The Whale almost rolled, but I managed to drive it into the oncoming lane. Luckily, it was empty. We crossed the freeway and kept on going into the cactus field on the other side. I remember running over some fence and dragging it a few hundred yards, but when we got to the runway all was under control...

My only worry was the chance of getting crushed like a roach by some airplane, which we probably wouldn't see until it was right on top of us. We kept going. There was no point in turning back now.

My attorney was holding onto the dashboard with both hands. I saw fear in his eyes. We were going so fast across the runway - then cactus, then runway again - and our only hope was to get to the other side.

I looked at my watch and saw that we had three minutes and fifteen seconds before takeoff. I could see the big red and silver plane about 1000 yards ahead of us.

''Plenty of time,'' I said. ''Get your stuff together. I'll drop you right next to the plane.''

''No!'' my attorney shouted. ''I can't get out! They'll crucify me!''

''No way,'' I said. ''Just say you were hitchhiking to the airport and I picked you up. You never saw me before. Hell, this town is full of white Cadillac convertibles... and I plan to go through so fast that nobody will even see the goddamn license plate.''

We were getting closer to the plane. I could already see the passengers.

''Are you ready?'' I said.

''Why not? But for Christ's sake, let's do it fast!'' He looked around, then pointed: ''Over there! Stop behind that big van, and I'll jump out where they can't see me.''

I nodded. So far there were no signs of alarm or pursuit. I thought that maybe this kind of thing happened all the time in Vegas.

Maybe so, I thought. Maybe this kind of thing is standard procedure in this town...

I turned behind the van and hit the brakes for my attorney to jump out. He waved to me and I kept going. I'd already noticed a break in the big fence and now I went for it. Nobody was chasing me. I couldn't understand it. I glanced in the mirror and saw my attorney climbing into the plane. Then I was through the gate and out into the early morning traffic.

***

I drove back to the hotel, to take a rest. There was every reason to believe I was heading for trouble, that I had pushed my luck a bit too far. I'd broken every rule Vegas lived by - ripping off the locals, abusing the tourists, terrifying the help.

The only hope now, I felt, was the possibility that we'd gone over the limit so far that nobody could possibly believe it. Especially since we'd signed in with the Police Conference.

The mentality of Las Vegas is such that a really serious crime is often not recognized. One of my neighbors spent a week in the Vegas jail for ''vagrancy''. He's about twenty years old, long hair, denim jacket, backpack - a real Road Person. Totally harmless; he just wanders around the country, looking for whatever it was that we all thought we'd had in the Sixties. On a trip from Chicago to L.A. he decided to have a look at Vegas. He was standing on a street-corner near the Circus-Circus, watching the fountain, when the cop-car pulled up. Wham! Straight to jail. No phone call, no lawyer, no charge.

''They put me in the car and took me to the police station,'' he said. ''Then they brought me into a big room full of people. Maybe a dozen prisoners. You had to walk in the middle of the room, then take everything out of your pockets and put it on the desk. I only had about twenty bucks, and the fine for vagrancy was twenty-five, so they put me on a bench with the people who were going to jail. The two guys behind me were acid people. They'd been picked up for vagrancy, too. But when they started emptying their pockets, it turned out they had $130,000. The cops couldn't believe their eyes and went crazy when they saw all that money. There was no way they could hold those guys for 'vagrancy', so they charged them with 'tax evasion'. They took us all to jail. These two guys were dealers, of course. They paid one of the guards and got the best lawyer in town... About two hours later they were out. Then they finally let me send a telegram to my old man to ask for 125 bucks... but it took seven or eight days. I'm not sure how long I was in there. When I finally got out, the cop on the desk took another twenty-five bucks out of what my father sent me, besides the vagrancy fine. What could I say? I went straight to the plane and I didn't say a word to anybody until I was out of Nevada. Man, it's one place I'll never go back to.''





CHAPTER ELEVEN





I was still thinking about this story when I drove the White Whale to the Flamingo parking lot. Fifty bucks and a week in jail for standing on a corner... Jesus, what kind of incredible punishment would they plan for me? I thought about the possible charges. Rape? Fraud? Larceny? I could always offer to pay it off. Say that I was sent here by Sports Illustrated and then give the Time, Inc. lawyers a nightmare lawsuit.



Item : $44,000

We followed the defendant, Raoul Duke, throughout the Western Hemisphere and finally found him in a village on an island known as Culebra in the Caribbean, where his attorney got a ruling that all proceedings should be done in the language of the Carib tribe. We sent three men to Berlitz to study it, but nineteen hours before the date set for the trial, the defendant fled to Colombia, to a fishing village called Guajira near the Venezuelan border, where the official language is a dialect known as ''Guajiro''. After many months, when we were finally ready to start the trial in that place, the defendant moved to a small port on the Amazon River, where he made connections with a tribe of headhunters called ''Jibaros''. We sent a specialist there to find and hire a native attorney who could speak Jibaro, but he had serious communication problems with fatal results...



Insane? Indeed. But what is sane? Especially here in ''our own country'' in this era of Nixon. No more of the speed of the Sixties. Uppers are going out of style. This was Tim Lear's failure. LSD must've seemed quite logical to him... He was selling acid ''consciousness expansion'' around America without thinking of what was awaiting all those people who took him seriously. It's not that they didn't deserve it. All those pathetic acid freaks who thought they could buy Peace and Understanding for three bucks a pill.

But the failure is ours, too. What Leary took away was the central illusion of a whole life-style that he helped to create... a generation of cripples who never understood the fallacy of the Acid Culture: the desperate assumption that somebody - or some force - is keeping that Light at the end of the tunnel.

***

I was lying on my bed in the Flamingo, looking at my surroundings. Something ugly was going to happen. I was sure of it.

The room looked like the site of some disastrous zoological experiment with whiskey and gorillas. The huge mirror was cracked - the result of that afternoon when my attorney ran around with the coconut hammer, smashing the mirror and all the light-bulbs. We'd replaced the lights with red and blue Christmas tree lights, but there was no hope of saving the mirror. My attorney's bed looked like a burned rat's nest. Fire had ruined the top half.

Luckily, the maids hadn't come near the room since that awful incident on Tuesday.

I had been asleep when the maid came in that morning. We'd forgotten to hang out the ''Do Not Disturb'' sign... so she walked into the room and scared my attorney, who was standing naked in the closet, vomiting into his shoes... thinking he was actually in the bathroom, and then suddenly looking up to see a woman staring at him, unable to speak, shaking with fear and confusion.

''She was holding that mop like an axe,'' he said. ''So I came out of the closet and hit her... it was pure instinct. I thought she was ready to kill me... and then she screamed, and that's when I put the ice-bag on her mouth.''

Yes. I remembered that scream... I woke up and saw my attorney fighting desperately on the floor right next to my bed with an old woman. The room was full of noise. The TV set, at top volume. I could hardly hear the woman's cries as she tried to get the ice-bag off her face...

My attorney finally managed to put his hands around her throat while she babbled: ''Please... please... I'm only the maid, I didn't mean anything...''

In a moment I was out of bed, grabbing my wallet and waving the gold Policemen's press badge in front of her face.

''You're under arrest!'' I shouted.

''No!'' she cried. ''I just wanted to clean up!''

My attorney got to his feet, breathing heavily. ''She must've used a pass key,'' he said. ''I was polishing my shoes in the closet when I noticed her getting in - so I took her.''

He was shaking, and I could see that he understood the seriousness of this situation. Our behavior, this time, had gone too far. Here we were, both naked, staring down at a terrified old woman - a hotel employee - lying on the floor of our suite in fear and hysteria.

''What made you do it?'' I asked her. ''Who paid you?''

''Nobody!'' she cried. ''I'm the maid!''

''You're lying!'' shouted my attorney. ''You were looking for the evidence! Who sent you - the manager?''

''I work for the hotel,'' she said. ''All I do is clean the rooms.''

I turned to my attorney. ''This means they know what we have,'' I said. ''So they sent this poor old woman here to steal it.''

''No!'' she yelled. ''I don't know what you're talking about!''

''Bullshit!'' said my attorney. ''You're just a part of it, as they are.''

''Part of what?''

''The dope ring,'' I said. ''You must know what's going on in this hotel. Why do you think we're here?''

She stared at us. ''I know you're cops,'' she said finally. ''But I thought you were just here for that convention. I swear. All I wanted to do was clean your room. I don't know anything about dope.''

My attorney laughed. ''Come on. Don't try to tell us you never heard of it.''

''No!'' she yelled. ''No! I swear to Jesus I never heard of that stuff!''

My attorney seemed to think for a moment, then he helped the old lady get to her feet. ''Maybe she's telling the truth,'' he said to me. '' Maybe she's not part of it.''

''No! I swear I'm not!'' she cried.

''Well...'' I said. ''Then maybe we won't have to put her away... maybe she can help.''

''Yes!'' she said eagerly. ''I'll help you all you need! I hate dope!''

''So do we, lady,'' I said.

''I think we should put her on the payroll,'' said my attorney. ''Check her out, then pay her each month, depending on what she finds out.''

The old woman's face had changed. She no longer seemed shocked to be talking with two naked men, one of whom had tried to strangle her just a few moments earlier.

''Do you think you could do it?'' I asked her.

''What?''

''One phone call every day,'' said my attorney. ''Just tell us what you've seen. Don't worry if it doesn't make sense. That's our problem.''

She grinned. ''You'd pay me for that?''

''You're damn right,'' I said. ''But the first time you say anything about this, to anybody - you'll go straight to prison for the rest of your life.''

She nodded. ''I'll help any way that I can,'' she said. ''But who should I call?''

''Don't worry,'' said my attorney. ''What's your name?''

''Alice,'' she said. ''From the Linen Service.''

''You'll be contacted,'' I said. ''It'll take about a week. But keep your eyes open and try to act normal. Can you do that?''

''Oh, yes sir!'' she said. ''Will I see you gentlemen again? After this, I mean...''

''No,'' said my attorney. ''They sent us here from Carson City. You'll be contacted by Inspector Rock.''

She seemed to be nervous.

''What's wrong?'' I said. ''Is there something you haven't told us?''

''Oh no!'' she said quickly. ''I was just thinking - who's going to pay me?''

''Inspector Rock will take care of that,'' I said. ''It'll all be in cash: a thousand dollars on the ninth of every month.''

''Oh Lord!'' she exclaimed. ''I'd do anything for that!''

''You and a lot of other people,'' said my attorney. ''You'd be surprised who we have on the payroll - right here in this hotel.''

She looked shocked. ''Do I know them?''

''Probably,'' I said. ''But they're all undercover. The only way you'll ever know is if something really serious happens and one of them has to contact you in public, with the password.''

''What is it?'' she asked.

'''One Hand Washes the Other,''' I said. ''When you hear that, you say: 'I fear nothing'. That way, they'll know you.''

She nodded, repeating the code several times, while we listened to make sure she had it right.

''OK,'' said my attorney. ''That's it for now. We probably won't see you again. You should ignore us until we leave. Don't come to clean the room. Just leave the towels and soap outside the door, exactly at midnight.'' He smiled. ''That way, we won't have another one of these little incidents, will we?''

She moved towards the door. ''Whatever you say gentlemen. I can't tell you how sorry I am about what happened... but it was only because I didn't realize.''

My attorney let her out. ''We understand,'' he said ''But it's over now. Thank God for the good people.''

She smiled as she closed the door behind her.





CHAPTER TWELVE





Almost seventy-two hours had passed since that incident, and no maid had come to our room. I wondered what Alice had told them.

But it couldn't last much longer. The room was full of used towels; they were everywhere. The bathroom floor was covered with soap bars, vomit, grapefruit pieces and broken glass. I had to put my boots on every time I went in there. The grey rug was so thick with marijuana seeds that it looked green.

The atmosphere of the suite was so rotten that I thought I could probably say it was some kind of exhibit that we'd brought here to show the cops from other parts of the country the total degradation of the drug people.

But what kind of addict would need all these crushed coconuts and watermelons? All these french fries? This dried ketchup on the door? All this booze? And pornographic photos on the broken mirror with dried yellow mustard on them... and all these signs of violence, these strange red and blue lights...

No, these were not the footprints of a normal junkie. It was too aggressive. There was evidence, in this room, of excessive consumption of almost every type of drug known to civilized man since 1544 A.D. It could only be explained as a sort of medical exhibit which showed what might happen if twenty-two serious drug addicts were kept together in the same room for five days and nights.

Indeed.

But of course, gentlemen, that would never happen in Real Life. We just put this thing together for demonstration...

***

Suddenly the phone was ringing, pulling me out of my fantasy. I looked at it.

Jesus, what now? Is this it? I could almost hear the voice of the Manager, saying the police were on their way to my room.

No, they wouldn't call first. If they decided to take me, they would probably set a trap in the elevator, with no warning.

So I picked up the phone. It was my friend Bruce Innes, calling from the Circus-Circus. He had found the man who wanted to sell the ape I'd been asking about. The price was $750.

''What?'' I said. ''Last night it was four hundred.''

''He says he just found out it was housebroken,'' said Bruce. ''He let it sleep in the trailer last night, and the thing actually pissed in the shower.''

''That doesn't mean anything,'' I said. ''Apes just like water.''

''Maybe you should come here and talk with the guy,'' said Bruce. ''He's in the bar with me. I told him you really wanted the ape and that you could give it a fine home. The ape's here in the bar with us too, sitting on a goddamn stool, drinking a beer.''

''Okay,'' I said. ''I'll be there in ten minutes. Don't let the bastard get drunk.''

***

When I got to the Circus-Circus, they were putting an old man into an ambulance outside the main door.

''What happened?'' I asked the car-keeper who took the Whale.

''I'm not sure,'' he said. ''Somebody said he had a stroke. But I noticed the back of his head was bitten.'' He shrugged. ''You want me to save your drink for you?'' he asked, holding up a big glass of tequila that was on the front seat of the car. ''I can put it in the cooler if you want.''

I nodded. I had been in and out of the place so often that these people were familiar with my habits.

The real reason they remembered me and knew my name was that I was still wearing my badge from the District Attorney's Conference. I'd forgotten about it. No doubt they all thought I was some kind of super-strange undercover agent... or maybe not. Maybe they thought anybody who pretended to be a cop, while driving around Vegas in a white Cadillac convertible with a drink in his hand, was a dangerous freak.

But none of this makes any difference with a head full of mescaline. You just walk around, doing anything that seems to be right, and it usually is. Vegas is so full of natural freaks - people who are really twisted - that drugs aren't really a problem.

***

I found Bruce at the bar, but there was no ape.

''Where is it?'' I demanded. ''I'm ready to write a check. I want to take the bastard back home on the plane with me. I've already reserved two first-class seats - Raoul Duke and Son.''

''Take him on the plane?''

''Hell yes,'' I said. ''You think they'd say anything? Anything about my son's infirmities?''

He shrugged. ''Forget it,'' he said. ''They just took him away. He attacked an old man right here at the bar. The ape shrieked, and guy threw a beer at him, so the ape went crazy and bit the old man's head... the bartender called an ambulance, then the cops came and took the ape away.''

''God damn it,'' I said. ''What's the bail? I want that ape.''

''Stay away from that jail,'' he said. ''That's all they need to put the cuffs on you. Forget that ape. You don't need him.''

I gave it some thought, then decided he was probably right. There was no point in losing everything just for the sake of some violent ape I'd never met.

''When are you taking off?'' Bruce asked.

''As soon as possible,'' I said. ''No point hanging around this town any longer. I have all I need.''

He seemed surprised. ''You found the American Dream?'' he asked. ''In this town?''

I nodded. ''We're sitting in the center of it right now,'' I said. ''You remember that story the manager told us about the owner of this place? How he always wanted to run away and join the circus when he was a kid?''

Bruce shrugged. ''Yeah, I see what you mean,'' he said. ''Now the bastard has his own circus. You're right - he's the model.''

''Absolutely,'' I said. ''I'm an American. I live here, and I agree with every goddamn word he says.''





CHAPTER THIRTEEN





I was sitting at a table when the bouncers came up to me. ''You don't belong here,'' one of them said quietly. ''Let's go outside.''

''Why not?'' I said.

They took me out to the front entrance and asked the car-keeper to bring the Whale.

''Where's your friend?'' they asked, while we waited.

''What friend?''

''The big spic.''

''Look,'' I said. ''I'm a Doctor of Journalism. You'd never see me hanging out with a goddamn spic.''

They laughed. ''Then what about this?'' they said. And they showed me a big photograph of me and my attorney at a table in the bar.

I shrugged. ''That's not me,'' I said. ''That's a guy named Thompson. He works for Rolling Stone... a really crazy person. And that guy sitting next to him is a hit-man for the Mafia in Hollywood. Hell, have you studied this photograph? What kind of a maniac would wear one blackglove?''

''We noticed that,'' they said. ''Where is he now?''

I shrugged. ''He moves around pretty fast,'' I said. ''His orders come from St. Louis.''

They stared at me. ''How do you know all this stuff?''

I showed them my gold badge. ''Act natural,'' I whispered.

They were still standing there when I drove off in the Whale.

***

It was all over now. I drove to the Flamingo and then brought all my luggage into the car. I tried to put the top up, for privacy, but something was wrong with it since I'd driven the thing into the lake for a water test. Nothing worked on the dashboard. Not even the headlights or the air conditioner.

I decided to try and drive to the airport. If this goddamn junk wouldn't run right, I could always leave it and call a cab. To hell with this garbage.

The sun was coming up when I got to the airport. I left the Whale in the VIP parking lot. A kid about fifteen years old checked it in, but I refused to answer his questions. He was very excited about the condition of the vehicle. ''Holy God!'' he kept shouting. ''How did this happen?'' He was moving around the car, pointing at holes, dents and scratches.

''I know,'' I said. ''This is a terrible goddamn town for driving around in convertibles where all the junkies hang out. Jesus, I couldn't believe it when they all went crazy and beat the hell out of it.''

The kid was not too bright. His face was blank, and now he seemed to be in a state of fear.

''Don't worry,'' I said. ''I'm insured.'' I showed him the contract where it said I was insured against all damages, for only two dollars a day.

The kid was still nodding when I fled. I felt a bit guilty about leaving him to deal with the car. There was no way to explain the massive damage. The car was finished - a total wreck. Normally, I would have been arrested for that... but not at this hour of the morning, with only this kid to deal with. I was, after all, a ''VIP''...

***

I hurried into the airport. It was still too early to act normal, so I sat down in the coffee shop with the L.A. Times. Every now and then I think: why read newspapers, if all they offer is crap? The press is a gang of cruel faggots. Journalism is not a profession - it is a cheap catch for freaks and misfits.

My plane left at eight, which meant I had two hours to kill. Feeling very visible. Paranoid. There was no doubt they were looking for me... Somewhere a jukebox was playing:



Aaawww... Mama, can this really be the end?



I checked in all my luggage. All except the leather bag which was full of drugs. And the .357. Did they have the goddamn metal detector system in this airport? I walked to the boarding gate and tried to look casual while checking the area. I decided to take the chance - just go through the gate with a big smile on my face. Indeed. It might look more natural if I found somebody to talk with - just a small talk between passengers.

But everywhere I looked I saw Pigs... because on that morning the Las Vegas airport was full of cops. When I finally put these things together, I felt much better... Well, why not? This was a heavy day in Vegas. A thousand cops were checking out of town, running through the airport in groups. They were going back home. The drug conference had finished.





CHAPTER FOURTEEN





As I walked around the airport, I realized that I was still wearing my police badge. It said: ''Raoul Duke, Special Investigator, Los Angeles.'' I saw it in the toilet mirror.

Get rid of this thing, I thought. Take it off.

The conference had finished... and it proved nothing. At least not to me. And certainly not to my attorney - who also had a badge - but he was back in Malibu.

It had been a waste of time - a cheap excuse for a thousand cops to spend a few days in Las Vegas and lay the bill on the taxpayers. Nobody had learned anything - or at least nothing new. Except maybe me... and all I learned was that the District Attorneys' Association is about ten years behind the reality which they just learned to call ''the Drug Culture'' - in the year of 1971.

They are still billing the taxpayers thousands of dollars to make films about ''the dangers of LSD'' when acid is widely known to everybody, except cops. On the drug market, the popularity of psychedelics has fallen so much that most dealers do not even sell quality acid or mescaline, except as a favor to special customers like me and my attorney.

The big market, these days, is in Downers. Reds, and heroin, and bad grass, sprayed with everything from arsenic to tranquillizers. What sells, today, is whatever short-circuits your brain and shuts it out for the longest possible time. And for every ex-speed freak, now there are 200 kids who went straight to the needle. They never even tried speed.

Uppers are no longer stylish. On the 1971 market, pure acid is rare. ''Consciousness expansion'' went out... and downers came in with Nixon.

***

I got onto the plane with no problem except the ugly vibrations from the other passengers... I was so far beyond simple tiredness that I was beginning to feel hysteric. The slightest misunderstanding with the stewardess would've made me either cry or go mad... and the woman seemed to sense this because she treated me very gently.

When I wanted more ice cubes for my Bloody Mary, she brought them quickly, and when I needed cigarettes, she gave me a pack from her own purse. The only time she seemed nervous was when I pulled a grapefruit out of my bag and began cutting it up with a hunting knife.

I noticed her watching me, so I tried to smile. ''I never go anywhere without grapefruit,'' I said. ''It's hard to get a really good one - unless you're rich.''

She nodded.

I smiled again, but it was hard to know what she was thinking. It was very much possible, I knew, that she'd already decided to call the police when we got to Denver.

***

I woke up when our plane hit the runway. Out the window I saw the Rocky Mountains. What the heck am I doing here? I wondered. It made no sense at all. I decided to call my attorney as soon as possible. Ask him to send me some money.

Since I was already here, I thought I might as well pick up something for my nerves first. Right after the plane landed, I rushed to the airport drugstore and asked the clerk for a box of amyls.

She hesitated and shook her head. ''Oh, no,'' she finally said. ''I can't sell you those things, except by prescription.''

''I know,'' I said. ''But you see, I'm a doctor. I don't need a prescription.''

She was still hesitating. ''Well... you'll have to show me some I.D.,'' she asked.

''Of course.'' I took out my wallet and let her see the police badge and my Ecclesiastical Discount Card - which says I'm a Doctor of Divinity, a certified Minister of the Church of the New Truth.

She studied it carefully, then gave it back with a new respect. Her eyes became warm. She seemed to want to touch me.

''I hope you'll forgive me, Doctor,'' she said with a smile. ''But I had to ask. We get some real freaks in this place. All kinds of dangerous addicts. You'd never believe it.''

''Don't worry,'' I said. ''I understand it perfectly. But I have a bad heart, and I hoped...''

''Certainly!'' she said - and in seconds she was back with a dozen amyls.

I paid, then opened the box and cracked one under my nose, while she was watching.

''Just be thankful your heart is young and strong,'' I said. ''If I were you I would never... Ah... Holy moly!... What? You'll have to excuse me now, I feel it coming on.''

I turned away and went off in the direction of the bar, and by the time I got there my heart was full of joy.





- THE END -

Hope you have enjoyed the reading!

Come back to http://english-e-reader.net/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories!





