'You are not really dying, are you?' asked Amanda.



'I have the doctor's permission to live till Tuesday,' said Laura.



'But today is Saturday!' gasped Laura. 'This is serious!'



'I don't know about it being serious; it is certainly Saturday,' said Laura.



'Death is always serious,' said Amanda.



'I never said I was going to die. I suppose I'm going to stop being Laura, but I shall go on being something. Some kind of animal, I suppose. You see, when a person hasn't been very good in their life, they reincarnate in some lower form of creature. And I haven't been very good, when I think about it. I've been mean, and sometimes cruel and unforgiving, when circumstances seemed to demand it.'



'Circumstances never demand that sort of thing,' said Amanda quickly.



'If you don't mind my saying so, my cousin Egbert is a circumstance that would demand a large amount of that sort of thing,' said Laura. 'You're married to him, and you've promised to love and obey him. I haven't.'



'What's wrong with Egbert?' protested Amanda.



'Oh, it's probably me who has been wrong,' admitted Laura coolly. 'Egbert has just been the excuse for my bad behaviour. He made a bad-tempered fuss the other day, for example, when I took the young dogs from the farm out for a run.'



'They chased his young chickens and ran all over the flowers in his garden. You know how he loves his chickens and his garden.'



'Anyway, he didn't have to complain about it for the whole of the evening and then say, "Let's say no more about it" when I was beginning to enjoy the discussion.' Laura smiled. 'So I had my revenge and allowed all his chickens to get into his garden shed and eat his seeds.'



'Oh!' cried Amanda. 'And we thought it was an accident!'



'So you see,' Laura continued, 'I really do have reasons for supposing that I shall be some lower form of creature when I am reincarnated. I shall be an animal of some kind. But I think I shall be a nice animal, something handsome and with a love of fun. An otter, perhaps.'



'I can't imagine you as an otter,' said Amanda.



'Well, I don't suppose you can imagine me as an angel, either,' said Laura.



Amanda was silent. She couldn't.



'Actually, I think life as an otter would be quite enjoyable,' continued Laura. 'And then, if I'm quite a good otter, I suppose I should get back into a human shape of some sort. Nothing too grand - a little brown, unclothed Nubian boy, I should think.'



'I wish you would be serious,' sighed Amanda. 'You really ought to be if you're only going to live till Tuesday.'



In fact, Laura died on Monday.



'It's so upsetting,' Amanda complained to her husband's uncle, Sir Lulworth Quayne. 'I've asked quite a lot of people to come and stay, to play golf and go fishing. And the gardens are looking so beautiful now.'



'Laura was always thoughtless' said Sir Lulworth.



'She had the craziest kind of ideas,' said Amanda. 'Was there any insanity on her side of the family, do you know?'



'Insanity? No, I never heard of any. Her father lives in West Kensington, but apart from that I believe he's quite sane.'



'She had an idea that she was going to be reincarnated as an otter,' said Amanda.



'These ideas of reincarnation are quite common, even in the West,' said Sir Lulworth. 'They can't really be considered mad. And Laura was such a surprising person in this life, I shouldn't even like to guess what she might be doing in the next one.'



'Do you really think she might have become some sort of animal?' asked Amanda. She was one of those people who readily adopt other people's opinions.



Just then Egbert entered, looking extremely unhappy; far too unhappy for Laura's death to be the reason.



'Four of my best chickens have been killed,' he said. 'One of them was pulled right into the middle of my new flower garden and was eaten there! The flowers are ruined!' Egbert lacked ready to cry. 'My best flower garden and my best chickens! It's almost as if the horrible creature that did it knew this.'



'What sort of creature -?' began Amanda.



'There were footmarks to and from the stream at the bottom of the garden,' said Egbert. 'It must have been an otter.'



Amanda looked quickly and secretly at Sir Lulworth.



Egbert was too upset to eat any breakfast. He went outside to make stronger fences around the chicken houses.



'I think she might at least have waited until after the funeral,' said Amanda in a shocked voice.



'It's her own funeral, you know,' said Sir Lulworth. 'Why should she be polite about it?'



While the family were attending the funeral the next day, the last of Egbert's chickens were killed. And the killer's escape route seemed to have taken in most of the flowerbeds, and the strawberry beds in the lower garden.



'I shall get the otter hounds to come and hunt for this creature as soon as possible,' said Egbert, angrily.



'Oh, but you can't!' exclaimed Amanda. 'It's not polite, so soon after a funeral.'



'It has to be done,' said Egbert. 'Once an otter starts this sort of thing, it won't stop.'



'Perhaps it will go somewhere now that there are no more chickens left,' suggested Amanda.



'I'm beginning to think you want to protect the creature,' said Egbert.



'There's been so little water in the stream lately,' said Amanda. 'It doesn't seem very sporting to hunt an animal when it has so little chance of escaping anywhere.'



'I'm not thinking about sport,' shouted Egbert. 'I want to have the animal killed as soon as possible.'



Even Amanda found it difficult to continue to argue in the otter's defence when, during church time on Sunday, it got into the house and found half a salmon, then tore it into pieces on the carpet in Egbert's study.



'We shall have it under our beds and biting pieces out of our feet soon,' said Egbert, and from what Amanda knew about this particular otter she felt that was quite possible.



On the evening before the hunt, Amanda walked alone by the stream for an hour, making what she imagined to be hound noises. Those people who heard her decided kindly that she was practicing animal imitations for the next village entertainment.



It was her friend and neighbour, Aurora Burret, who brought her news of the day's sport.



'We had quite a good day,' Aurora said. 'We found the otter at once, in the pool just below your garden.'



'Did you... kill...?' asked Amanda.



'Of course. A fine she-otter. Your husband got rather badly bitten trying to cut off its tail. Poor creature. I felt quite sorry for it. It had such a human look in its eyes when it was killed. You'll say I'm silly, but do you know who the look reminded me of? My dear, what's the matter?'



Some days later, when Amanda recovered from her nervous attack, Egbert took her to the Nile Valley. The change of scenery soon improved her health, and she returned to her usual relaxed and peaceful state, able to remember the otter's adventures quite calmly. Even hearing her husband swearing angrily in his dressing room in the Cairo hotel did not upset her.



'What's the matter? What has happened?' she called, amused.



'The little devil has thrown all my clean shirts into the bath!' shouted Egbert. 'Wait until I catch you, you little -!'



'What little devil?' asked Amanda, trying not to laugh.



'A little devil of a naked brown Nubian boy,' said Egbert.



And now Amanda is seriously ill.





- THE END -



Hope you have enjoyed the reading!



Come back to https://english-e-reader.net/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories!





